# 47 - 2 Corinthians 11

(previous:: [[2 Cor 10|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 10]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 12|47 - 2 Corinthians 12 →]])

***


###### 1 
I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness; but indeed you are bearing with me. 

###### 2 
For I am jealous for you with a godly jealousy; for I betrothed you to one husband, so that to Christ I might present you _as_ a pure virgin. 

###### 3 
But I am afraid that, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craftiness, your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity _of devotion_ to Christ. 

###### 4 
For if one comes and preaches another Jesus whom we have not preached, or you receive a different spirit which you have not received, or a different gospel which you have not accepted, you bear _this_ beautifully. 

###### 5 
For I consider myself not in the least inferior to the most eminent apostles. 

###### 6 
But even if I am unskilled in speech, yet I am not _so_ in knowledge; in fact, in every way we have made _this_ evident to you in all things. 

###### 7 
Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself so that you might be exalted, because I preached the gospel of God to you without charge? 

###### 8 
I robbed other churches by taking wages _from them_ to serve you; 

###### 9 
and when I was present with you and was in need, I was not a burden to anyone; for when the brethren came from Macedonia they fully supplied my need, and in everything I kept myself from being a burden to you, and will continue to do so. 

###### 10 
As the truth of Christ is in me, this boasting of mine will not be stopped in the regions of Achaia. 

###### 11 
Why? Because I do not love you? God knows _I do_! 

###### 12 
But what I am doing I will continue to do, so that I may cut off opportunity from those who desire an opportunity to be regarded just as we are in the matter about which they are boasting. 

###### 13 
For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. 

###### 14 
No wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. 

###### 15 
Therefore it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their deeds. 

###### 16 
Again I say, let no one think me foolish; but if _you do_, receive me even as foolish, so that I also may boast a little. 

###### 17 
What I am saying, I am not saying as the Lord would, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting. 

###### 18 
Since many boast according to the flesh, I will boast also. 

###### 19 
For you, being _so_ wise, tolerate the foolish gladly. 

###### 20 
For you tolerate it if anyone enslaves you, anyone devours you, anyone takes advantage of you, anyone exalts himself, anyone hits you in the face. 

###### 21 
To _my_ shame I _must_ say that we have been weak _by comparison_. But in whatever respect anyone _else_ is bold--I speak in foolishness--I am just as bold myself. 

###### 22 
Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they descendants of Abraham? So am I. 

###### 23 
Are they servants of Christ?--I speak as if insane--I more so; in far more labors, in far more imprisonments, beaten times without number, often in danger of death. 

###### 24 
Five times I received from the Jews thirty-nine _lashes_. 

###### 25 
Three times I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, three times I was shipwrecked, a night and a day I have spent in the deep. 

###### 26 
_I have been_ on frequent journeys, in dangers from rivers, dangers from robbers, dangers from _my_ countrymen, dangers from the Gentiles, dangers in the city, dangers in the wilderness, dangers on the sea, dangers among false brethren; 

###### 27 
_I have been_ in labor and hardship, through many sleepless nights, in hunger and thirst, often without food, in cold and exposure. 

###### 28 
Apart from _such_ external things, there is the daily pressure on me _of_ concern for all the churches. 

###### 29 
Who is weak without my being weak? Who is led into sin without my intense concern? 

###### 30 
If I have to boast, I will boast of what pertains to my weakness. 

###### 31 
The God and Father of the Lord Jesus, He who is blessed forever, knows that I am not lying. 

###### 32 
In Damascus the ethnarch under Aretas the king was guarding the city of the Damascenes in order to seize me, 

###### 33 
and I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall, and _so_ escaped his hands.

***

(previous:: [[2 Cor 10|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 10]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 12|47 - 2 Corinthians 12 →]])
