# 11 - 1 Kings 10

(previous:: [[1 Kgs 9|← 11 - 1 Kings 9]]) | (up:: [[11 - 1 Kings]]) | (next:: [[1 Kgs 11|11 - 1 Kings 11 →]])

***


###### 1 
And the Queen of Sheba hearing the fame of Solomon (concerning the Name of the Lord) came to prove him with hard questions. 

###### 2 
And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, _and_ camels that bare sweet odors, and gold exceeding much, and precious stones: and she came to Solomon, and communed with him of all that was in her heart. 

###### 3 
And Solomon declared unto her all her questions: nothing was hid from the king, which he expounded not unto her. 

###### 4 
Then the Queen of Sheba saw all Solomon's wisdom, and the house that he had built, 

###### 5 
And the meat of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the order of his ministers, and their apparel, and his drinking vessels, and his burnt offerings, that he offered in the house of the Lord, and she was greatly astonied. 

###### 6 
And she said unto the King, It was a true word that I heard in mine own land of thy sayings, and of thy wisdom. 

###### 7 
Howbeit I believed not this report, till I came, and had seen it with mine eyes: but lo, the one half was not told me: _for_ thou hast more wisdom and prosperity, than I have heard by report. 

###### 8 
Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand ever before thee, and hear thy wisdom. 

###### 9 
Blessed be the Lord thy God, which loved thee, to set thee on the throne of Israel, because the Lord loved Israel forever, and made thee king to do equity and righteousness. 

###### 10 
And she gave the king sixscore talents of gold, and of sweet odors exceeding much, and precious stones. There came no more such abundance of sweet odors, as the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon. 

###### 11 
The navy also of Hiram (that carried gold from Ophir) brought likewise great plenty of Almuggim trees from Ophir, and precious stones. 

###### 12 
And the king made of the Almuggim trees pillars for the house of the Lord, and for the king's palace, and made harps and psalteries for singers. There came no more such Almuggim trees, nor were any more seen unto this day. 

###### 13 
And King Solomon gave unto the Queen of Sheba, whatsoever she would ask, besides that, which Solomon gave her of his kingly liberality: so she returned and went to her own country, _both_ she and her servants. 

###### 14 
¶ Also the weight of gold, that came to Solomon in one year, was six hundred threescore and six talents of gold, 

###### 15 
Besides that _he had_ of merchant men and of the merchandises of them that sold spices, and of all the kings of Arabia, and of the princes of the country. 

###### 16 
And King Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold, six hundred _shekels_ of gold went to a target: 

###### 17 
And three hundred shields of beaten gold, three pounds of gold went to one shield: and the King put them in the house of the wood of Lebanon. 

###### 18 
¶ Then the King made a great throne of ivory, and covered it with the best gold. 

###### 19 
And the throne had six steps, and the top of the throne _was_ round behind, and there were stays on either side on the place of the throne, and two lions standing by the stays. 

###### 20 
And there stood twelve lions on the six steps on either side: there was not the like made in any kingdom. 

###### 21 
And all King Solomon's drinking vessels _were_ of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the wood of Lebanon _were_ of pure gold, none _were_ of silver: _for_ it was nothing esteemed in the days of Solomon 

###### 22 
For the King had on the sea the navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram: once in three years came the navy of Tarshish, and brought gold and silver, ivory, and apes and peacocks. 

###### 23 
So King Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth both in riches and in wisdom. 

###### 24 
And all the world sought to see Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart, 

###### 25 
And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, and armor, and sweet odors, horses and mules, from year to year. 

###### 26 
Then Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he placed in the chariot cities, and with the King at Jerusalem. 

###### 27 
And the King gave silver in Jerusalem as stones, and gave cedars as the wild fig trees that grow abundantly in the plain. 

###### 28 
Also Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and fine linen: the king's merchants received the linen for a price. 

###### 29 
There came up and went out of Egypt _some_ chariot _worth_ six hundred _shekels_ of silver: that is, one horse, an hundred and fifty. And thus they brought _horses_ to all the Kings of the Hittites and to the Kings of Aram by their means.

***

(previous:: [[1 Kgs 9|← 11 - 1 Kings 9]]) | (up:: [[11 - 1 Kings]]) | (next:: [[1 Kgs 11|11 - 1 Kings 11 →]])
