# 46 - 1 Corinthians 13

(previous:: [[1 Cor 12|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 12]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 14|46 - 1 Corinthians 14 →]])

***


###### 1 
If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but do not have love, I have become a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. 

###### 2 
If I have _the gift of_ prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge; and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but do not have love, I am nothing. 

###### 3 
And if I give all my possessions to feed _the poor_, and if I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing. 

###### 4 
Love is patient, love is kind _and_ is not jealous; love does not brag _and_ is not arrogant, 

###### 5 
does not act unbecomingly; it does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong _suffered_, 

###### 6 
does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth; 

###### 7 
bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. 

###### 8 
Love never fails; but if _there are gifts of_ prophecy, they will be done away; if _there are_ tongues, they will cease; if _there is_ knowledge, it will be done away. 

###### 9 
For we know in part and we prophesy in part; 

###### 10 
but when the perfect comes, the partial will be done away. 

###### 11 
When I was a child, I used to speak like a child, think like a child, reason like a child; when I became a man, I did away with childish things. 

###### 12 
For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face; now I know in part, but then I will know fully just as I also have been fully known. 

###### 13 
But now faith, hope, love, abide these three; but the greatest of these is love.

***

(previous:: [[1 Cor 12|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 12]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 14|46 - 1 Corinthians 14 →]])
