# 19 - Psalms 116

(previous:: [[Ps 115|← 19 - Psalms 115]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 117|19 - Psalms 117 →]])

***


###### 1 
I love the LORD because he hears my voice and my prayer for mercy. 

###### 2 
Because he bends down to listen, I will pray as long as I have breath! 

###### 3 
Death wrapped its ropes around me; the terrors of the grave overtook me. I saw only trouble and sorrow. 

###### 4 
Then I called on the name of the LORD: "Please, LORD, save me!" 

###### 5 
How kind the LORD is! How good he is! So merciful, this God of ours! 

###### 6 
The LORD protects those of childlike faith; I was facing death, and he saved me. 

###### 7 
Let my soul be at rest again, for the LORD has been good to me. 

###### 8 
He has saved me from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling. 

###### 9 
And so I walk in the LORD's presence as I live here on earth! 

###### 10 
I believed in you, so I said, "I am deeply troubled, LORD." 

###### 11 
In my anxiety I cried out to you, "These people are all liars!" 

###### 12 
What can I offer the LORD for all he has done for me? 

###### 13 
I will lift up the cup of salvation and praise the LORD's name for saving me. 

###### 14 
I will keep my promises to the LORD in the presence of all his people. 

###### 15 
The LORD cares deeply when his loved ones die. 

###### 16 
O LORD, I am your servant; yes, I am your servant, born into your household; you have freed me from my chains. 

###### 17 
I will offer you a sacrifice of thanksgiving and call on the name of the LORD. 

###### 18 
I will fulfill my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people-- 

###### 19 
in the house of the LORD in the heart of Jerusalem. Praise the LORD!

***

(previous:: [[Ps 115|← 19 - Psalms 115]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 117|19 - Psalms 117 →]])
