# 19 - Psalms 136

(previous:: [[Ps 135|← 19 - Psalms 135]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 137|19 - Psalms 137 →]])

***


###### 1 
Give thanks to the LORD, for he is good! _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 2 
Give thanks to the God of gods. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 3 
Give thanks to the Lord of lords. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 4 
Give thanks to him who alone does mighty miracles. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 5 
Give thanks to him who made the heavens so skillfully. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 6 
Give thanks to him who placed the earth among the waters. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 7 
Give thanks to him who made the heavenly lights-- _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 8 
the sun to rule the day, _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 9 
and the moon and stars to rule the night. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 10 
Give thanks to him who killed the firstborn of Egypt. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 11 
He brought Israel out of Egypt. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 12 
He acted with a strong hand and powerful arm. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 13 
Give thanks to him who parted the Red Sea. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 14 
He led Israel safely through, _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 15 
but he hurled Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 16 
Give thanks to him who led his people through the wilderness. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 17 
Give thanks to him who struck down mighty kings. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 18 
He killed powerful kings-- _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 19 
Sihon king of the Amorites, _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 20 
and Og king of Bashan. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 21 
God gave the land of these kings as an inheritance-- _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 22 
a special possession to his servant Israel. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 23 
He remembered us in our weakness. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 24 
He saved us from our enemies. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 25 
He gives food to every living thing. _His faithful love endures forever._ 

###### 26 
Give thanks to the God of heaven. _His faithful love endures forever._

***

(previous:: [[Ps 135|← 19 - Psalms 135]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 137|19 - Psalms 137 →]])
