# 19 - Psalms 40

(previous:: [[Ps 39|← 19 - Psalms 39]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 41|19 - Psalms 41 →]])

***


###### 1 
I waited patiently for the LORD to help me, and he turned to me and heard my cry. 

###### 2 
He lifted me out of the pit of despair, out of the mud and the mire. He set my feet on solid ground and steadied me as I walked along. 

###### 3 
He has given me a new song to sing, a hymn of praise to our God. Many will see what he has done and be amazed. They will put their trust in the LORD. 

###### 4 
Oh, the joys of those who trust the LORD, who have no confidence in the proud or in those who worship idols. 

###### 5 
O LORD my God, you have performed many wonders for us. Your plans for us are too numerous to list. You have no equal. If I tried to recite all your wonderful deeds, I would never come to the end of them. 

###### 6 
You take no delight in sacrifices or offerings. Now that you have made me listen, I finally understand-- you don't require burnt offerings or sin offerings. 

###### 7 
Then I said, "Look, I have come. As is written about me in the Scriptures: 

###### 8 
I take joy in doing your will, my God, for your instructions are written on my heart." 

###### 9 
I have told all your people about your justice. I have not been afraid to speak out, as you, O LORD, well know. 

###### 10 
I have not kept the good news of your justice hidden in my heart; I have talked about your faithfulness and saving power. I have told everyone in the great assembly of your unfailing love and faithfulness. 

###### 11 
LORD, don't hold back your tender mercies from me. Let your unfailing love and faithfulness always protect me. 

###### 12 
For troubles surround me-- too many to count! My sins pile up so high I can't see my way out. They outnumber the hairs on my head. I have lost all courage. 

###### 13 
Please, LORD, rescue me! Come quickly, LORD, and help me. 

###### 14 
May those who try to destroy me be humiliated and put to shame. May those who take delight in my trouble be turned back in disgrace. 

###### 15 
Let them be horrified by their shame, for they said, "Aha! We've got him now!" 

###### 16 
But may all who search for you be filled with joy and gladness in you. May those who love your salvation repeatedly shout, "The LORD is great!" 

###### 17 
As for me, since I am poor and needy, let the Lord keep me in his thoughts. You are my helper and my savior. O my God, do not delay.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 39|← 19 - Psalms 39]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 41|19 - Psalms 41 →]])
