# 19 - Psalms 92

(previous:: [[Ps 91|← 19 - Psalms 91]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 93|19 - Psalms 93 →]])

***


###### 1 
It is good to give thanks to the LORD, to sing praises to the Most High. 

###### 2 
It is good to proclaim your unfailing love in the morning, your faithfulness in the evening, 

###### 3 
accompanied by a ten-stringed instrument, a harp, and the melody of a lyre. 

###### 4 
You thrill me, LORD, with all you have done for me! I sing for joy because of what you have done. 

###### 5 
O LORD, what great works you do! And how deep are your thoughts. 

###### 6 
Only a simpleton would not know, and only a fool would not understand this: 

###### 7 
Though the wicked sprout like weeds and evildoers flourish, they will be destroyed forever. 

###### 8 
But you, O LORD, will be exalted forever. 

###### 9 
Your enemies, LORD, will surely perish; all evildoers will be scattered. 

###### 10 
But you have made me as strong as a wild ox. You have anointed me with the finest oil. 

###### 11 
My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies; my ears have heard the defeat of my wicked opponents. 

###### 12 
But the godly will flourish like palm trees and grow strong like the cedars of Lebanon. 

###### 13 
For they are transplanted to the LORD's own house. They flourish in the courts of our God. 

###### 14 
Even in old age they will still produce fruit; they will remain vital and green. 

###### 15 
They will declare, "The LORD is just! He is my rock! There is no evil in him!"

***

(previous:: [[Ps 91|← 19 - Psalms 91]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 93|19 - Psalms 93 →]])
