# 19 - Psalms 94

(previous:: [[Ps 93|← 19 - Psalms 93]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 95|19 - Psalms 95 →]])

***


###### 1 
O LORD, the God of vengeance, O God of vengeance, let your glorious justice shine forth! 

###### 2 
Arise, O Judge of the earth. Give the proud what they deserve. 

###### 3 
How long, O LORD? How long will the wicked be allowed to gloat? 

###### 4 
How long will they speak with arrogance? How long will these evil people boast? 

###### 5 
They crush your people, LORD, hurting those you claim as your own. 

###### 6 
They kill widows and foreigners and murder orphans. 

###### 7 
"The LORD isn't looking," they say, "and besides, the God of Israel doesn't care." 

###### 8 
Think again, you fools! When will you finally catch on? 

###### 9 
Is he deaf--the one who made your ears? Is he blind--the one who formed your eyes? 

###### 10 
He punishes the nations--won't he also punish you? He knows everything--doesn't he also know what you are doing? 

###### 11 
The LORD knows people's thoughts; he knows they are worthless! 

###### 12 
Joyful are those you discipline, LORD, those you teach with your instructions. 

###### 13 
You give them relief from troubled times until a pit is dug to capture the wicked. 

###### 14 
The LORD will not reject his people; he will not abandon his special possession. 

###### 15 
Judgment will again be founded on justice, and those with virtuous hearts will pursue it. 

###### 16 
Who will protect me from the wicked? Who will stand up for me against evildoers? 

###### 17 
Unless the LORD had helped me, I would soon have settled in the silence of the grave. 

###### 18 
I cried out, "I am slipping!" but your unfailing love, O LORD, supported me. 

###### 19 
When doubts filled my mind, your comfort gave me renewed hope and cheer. 

###### 20 
Can unjust leaders claim that God is on their side-- leaders whose decrees permit injustice? 

###### 21 
They gang up against the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. 

###### 22 
But the LORD is my fortress; my God is the mighty rock where I hide. 

###### 23 
God will turn the sins of evil people back on them. He will destroy them for their sins. The LORD our God will destroy them.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 93|← 19 - Psalms 93]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 95|19 - Psalms 95 →]])
