# 47 - 2 Corinthians 11

(previous:: [[2 Cor 10|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 10]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 12|47 - 2 Corinthians 12 →]])

***


###### 1 
Would to God, ye could suffer a little my foolishness, and indeed, ye suffer me. 

###### 2 
For I am jealous over you, with godly jealousy: for I have prepared you for one husband, to present you _as _a pure virgin to Christ: 

###### 3 
But I fear lest as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your minds should be corrupt from the simplicity that is in Christ: 

###### 4 
For if he that cometh, preacheth another Jesus whom we have not preached: or if ye receive another spirit whom ye have not received: either another Gospel which ye have not received, ye might well have suffered _him_. 

###### 5 
Verily I suppose that I was not inferior to the very chief Apostles. 

###### 6 
And though _I be_ rude in speaking, yet _I am_ not _so_ in knowledge, but among you we have been made manifest to the uttermost, in all things. 

###### 7 
Have I committed an offence, because I abased myself, that ye might be exalted, and because I preached to you the Gospel of God freely? 

###### 8 
I robbed other Churches, and took wages _of them_ to do you service. 

###### 9 
And when I was present with you, and had need, I was not slothful to the hindrance of any man: for that which was lacking unto me, the brethren which came from Macedonia, supplied, and in all things I kept, and will keep myself, that I should not be grievous unto you. 

###### 10 
The truth of Christ is in me, that this rejoicing shall not be shut up against me in the regions of Achaia. 

###### 11 
Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth. 

###### 12 
But what I do, that will I do, that I may cut away occasion from them which desire occasion, that they might be found like unto us in that wherein they rejoice. 

###### 13 
For such false apostles are deceitful workers, and transform themselves into the Apostles of Christ. 

###### 14 
And no marvel: for Satan himself is transformed into an Angel of light. 

###### 15 
Therefore it is no great thing, though his ministers transform themselves, as though _they were_ the ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. 

###### 16 
I say again, Let no man think that I am foolish, or else take me even as a fool, that I also may boast myself a little. 

###### 17 
That I speak, I speak it not after the Lord: but as_ it were_ foolishly, in this _my_ great boasting. 

###### 18 
Seeing that many rejoice after [the] flesh, I will rejoice also. 

###### 19 
For ye suffer fools gladly, because that ye are wise. 

###### 20 
For ye suffer, even if a man bring you into bondage, if a man devour _you_, if a man take _your goods_, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite you on the face. 

###### 21 
I speak as concerning the reproach: as though that we had been weak: but wherein any man is bold (I speak foolishly) I am bold also. 

###### 22 
They are Hebrews, so am I: they are Israelites, so am I: they are the seed of Abraham, so am I. 

###### 23 
They are the ministers of Christ (I speak as a fool) I am more: in labors more abundant: in stripes above measure: in prison more plenteously: in death oft. 

###### 24 
Of the Jews five times received I forty _stripes_ save one. 

###### 25 
I was thrice beaten with rods: I was once stoned: I suffered thrice shipwreck: night and day have I been in the deep sea. 

###### 26 
In journeying _I was _often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of mine own nation, in perils among the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils in wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren, 

###### 27 
In weariness and painfulness, in watching often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and in nakedness. 

###### 28 
Beside the things which are outward, I am cumbered daily, _and have_ the care of all the Churches. 

###### 29 
Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is offended, and I burn not? 

###### 30 
If I must needs rejoice, I will rejoice of mine infirmities. 

###### 31 
The God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed for evermore, knoweth that I lie not. 

###### 32 
In Damascus the governor of the people under King Aretas, laid watch in the city of the Damascenes, and would have caught me. 

###### 33 
But at a window was I let down in a basket through the wall, and escaped his hands.

***

(previous:: [[2 Cor 10|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 10]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 12|47 - 2 Corinthians 12 →]])
