# 47 - 2 Corinthians 12

(previous:: [[2 Cor 11|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 11]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 13|47 - 2 Corinthians 13 →]])

***


###### 1 
It is not expedient for me no doubt to rejoice: for I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 

###### 2 
I know a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether _he were_ in the body, I cannot tell, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth) which was taken up into the third heaven. 

###### 3 
And I know such a man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth.) 

###### 4 
How that he was taken up into Paradise, and heard words which cannot be spoken, which are not possible for man to utter. 

###### 5 
Of such a man will I rejoice: of myself will I not rejoice, except it be of mine infirmities. 

###### 6 
For though I would rejoice, I should not be a fool, for I will say the truth: but I refrain, lest any man should think of me above that he seeth in me, or that he heareth of me. 

###### 7 
And lest I should be exalted out of measure through the abundance of revelations, there was given unto me a prick in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, because I should not be exalted out of measure. 

###### 8 
For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. 

###### 9 
And he said unto me, **My grace is sufficient for thee: for my power is made perfect through weakness. **Very gladly therefore will I rejoice rather in mine infirmities, that the power of Christ may dwell in me. 

###### 10 
Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in anguish for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong. 

###### 11 
I was a fool to boast myself: ye have compelled me: for I ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing was I inferior unto the very chief Apostles, though I be nothing. 

###### 12 
The signs of an Apostle were wrought among you with all patience, with signs, and wonders and great works. 

###### 13 
For what is it, wherein ye were inferiors unto other Churches, except that I have not been slothful to your hindrance? forgive me this wrong. 

###### 14 
Behold, the third time I am ready to come unto you, and yet will I not be slothful to your hindrance: for I seek not yours, but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the fathers, but the fathers for the children. 

###### 15 
And I will most gladly bestow, and will be bestowed for your souls: though the more I love you, the less I am loved. 

###### 16 
But be it that I charged you not: yet for as much as I was crafty, I took you with guile. 

###### 17 
Did I pill you by any of them whom I sent unto you? 

###### 18 
I have desired Titus, and with him I have sent a brother: did Titus pill you of any things? walked we not in the selfsame spirit? _walked we_ not in the same steps? 

###### 19 
Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you? we speak before God in Christ. But _we do_ all things, dearly beloved, for your edifying. 

###### 20 
For I fear lest when I come, I shall not find you such as I would: and that I shall be found unto you such as ye would not: and lest _there be_ strife, envying, wrath, contentions, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, _and _discord. 

###### 21 
_I fear_ lest when I come again, my God abase me among you, and I shall bewail many of them which have sinned already, and have not repented of the uncleanness, and fornication, and wantonness which they have committed.

***

(previous:: [[2 Cor 11|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 11]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 13|47 - 2 Corinthians 13 →]])
