# 47 - 2 Corinthians 13

(previous:: [[2 Cor 12|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 12]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]])

***


###### 1 
Lo this _is_ the third time that I come unto you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word stand. 

###### 2 
I told you before, and tell you before: as though I had been present the second time, so write I now being absent to them, which heretofore have sinned, and to all others, that if I come again, I will not spare, 

###### 3 
Seeing that ye seek experience of Christ, that speaketh in me, which toward you is not weak, but is mighty in you. 

###### 4 
For though he was crucified concerning _his _infirmity, yet liveth he through the power of God. And we no doubt are weak in him, but we shall live with him, through the power of God toward you. 

###### 5 
Prove yourselves whether ye are in the faith: examine yourselves: know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates? 

###### 6 
But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates. 

###### 7 
Now I pray unto God that ye do none evil, not that we should seem approved, but that ye should do that which is honest: though we be as reprobates. 

###### 8 
For we cannot _do_ anything against the truth, but for the truth. 

###### 9 
For we are glad when we are weak, and that ye are strong: this also we wish for, _even_ your perfection. 

###### 10 
Therefore write I these things being absent, lest when I am present, I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hath given me, to edification, and not to destruction. 

###### 11 
Finally brethren, fare ye well: be perfect: be of good comfort: be of one mind: live in peace, and the God of love and peace shall be with you. 

###### 12 
Greet one another with an holy kiss. All the Saints salute you. 

###### 13 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the holy Ghost be with you all, Amen. ¶ The second _Epistle_ to the Corinthians, written from Philippi, a city in Macedonia, _and sent_ by Titus and Lucas.

***

(previous:: [[2 Cor 12|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 12]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]])
