# 47 - 2 Corinthians 10

(previous:: [[2 Cor 9|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 9]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 11|47 - 2 Corinthians 11 →]])

***


###### 1 
Now I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness, and gentleness of Christ, which when I am present among you _am_ base, but am bold toward you being absent: 

###### 2 
And _this_ I require you, that I need not to be bold when I am present, with that same confidence, wherewith I think to be bold against some, which esteem us as though we walked according to the flesh. 

###### 3 
Nevertheless, though we walk in the flesh, yet we do not war after the flesh. 

###### 4 
(For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God, to cast down holds.) 

###### 5 
Casting down the imaginations, and every high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ, 

###### 6 
And having ready the vengeance against all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled. 

###### 7 
Look ye on things after the appearance? If any man trust in himself that he is Christ's, let him consider this again of himself, that as he is Christ's, even so _are_ we Christ's. 

###### 8 
For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which the Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction, I should have no shame. 

###### 9 
_This I say_, that I may not seem as _it were_ to fear you with letters. 

###### 10 
For the letters, saith he, are sore and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is of no value. 

###### 11 
Let such one think this, that such as we are in word by letters, when we are absent, such _will we be _also in deed, when we are present. 

###### 12 
For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or to compare ourselves to them, which praise themselves: but they understand not that they measure themselves with themselves, and compare themselves with themselves. 

###### 13 
But we will not rejoice of things, which are not within _our_ measure, but according to the measure of the line, whereof God hath distributed unto us a measure to attain even unto you. 

###### 14 
For we stretch not ourselves beyond _our_ measure, as though we had not attained unto you: for even to you also have we come _in preaching_ the Gospel of Christ. 

###### 15 
Not boasting of things which are without _our_ measure: _that is_, of other men's labors: and we hope, when your faith shall increase, to be magnified by you according to your line abundantly, 

###### 16 
And to preach the Gospel in those _regions_ which _are_ beyond you: not to rejoice in another man's line: _that is_, in the things that are prepared already. 

###### 17 
But let him that rejoiceth, rejoice in the Lord. 

###### 18 
For he that praiseth himself, is not allowed, but he whom the Lord praiseth.

***

(previous:: [[2 Cor 9|← 47 - 2 Corinthians 9]]) | (up:: [[47 - 2 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[2 Cor 11|47 - 2 Corinthians 11 →]])
