# 19 - Psalms 105

(previous:: [[Ps 104|← 19 - Psalms 104]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 106|19 - Psalms 106 →]])

***


###### 1 
Praise the Lord, _and_ call upon his Name: declare his works among the people. 

###### 2 
Sing unto him, sing praise unto him, _and_ talk of all his wondrous works. 

###### 3 
Rejoice in his holy Name, let the heart of them that seek the Lord, rejoice. 

###### 4 
Seek the Lord and his strength: seek his face continually. 

###### 5 
Remember his marvelous works that he hath done, his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth, 

###### 6 
Ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob, which are his elect. 

###### 7 
He is the Lord our God: his judgments _are_ through all the earth. 

###### 8 
He hath always remembered his covenant, _and_ promise, that he made to a thousand generations, 

###### 9 
_Even_ that which he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac: 

###### 10 
And _since_ hath confirmed it to Jacob for a law, _and_ to Israel for an everlasting covenant, 

###### 11 
Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance. 

###### 12 
Albeit they were few in number, _yea_ very few, and strangers in the land, 

###### 13 
And walked about from nation to nation, from _one_ kingdom to another people, 

###### 14 
_Yet_ suffered he no man to do them wrong, but reproved Kings for their sakes, _saying_, 

###### 15 
Touch not mine anointed, and do my Prophets no harm. 

###### 16 
Moreover, he called a famine upon the land, _and_ utterly brake the staff of bread. 

###### 17 
_But_ he sent a man before them: Joseph was sold for a slave. 

###### 18 
They held his feet in the stocks, _and_ he was laid in irons, 

###### 19 
Until his appointed time came, _and_ the counsel of the Lord had tried him. 

###### 20 
The King sent and loosed him: _even_ the Ruler of the people delivered him. 

###### 21 
He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance, 

###### 22 
That he should bind his princes unto his will, and teach his Ancients wisdom. 

###### 23 
Then Israel came to Egypt, and Jacob was a stranger in the land of Ham. 

###### 24 
And he increased his people exceedingly, and made them stronger than their oppressors. 

###### 25 
He turned their heart to hate his people, and to deal craftily with his servants. 

###### 26 
_Then_ sent he Moses his servant, _and_ Aaron whom he had chosen. 

###### 27 
They showed among them the message of his signs, and wonders in the land of Ham. 

###### 28 
He sent darkness, and made it dark: and they were not disobedient unto his commission. 

###### 29 
He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. 

###### 30 
Their land brought forth frogs, _even_ in their King's chambers. 

###### 31 
He spake, and there came swarms of flies _and_ lice in all their quarters. 

###### 32 
He gave them hail for rain, _and_ flames of fire in their land. 

###### 33 
He smote their vines also and their fig trees, and brake down the trees in their coasts. 

###### 34 
He spake and the grasshoppers came, and caterpillars innumerable, 

###### 35 
And did eat up all the grass in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground. 

###### 36 
He smote also all the firstborn in their land, _even_ the beginning of all their strength. 

###### 37 
He brought them forth also with silver and gold, and there was none feeble among their tribes. 

###### 38 
Egypt was glad at their departing: for the fear of them had fallen upon them. 

###### 39 
He spread a cloud to be a covering, and fire to give light in the night. 

###### 40 
They asked, and he brought quails, and he filled them with the bread of heaven. 

###### 41 
He opened the rock, and the water flowed out, _and_ ran in the dry places _like_ a river. 

###### 42 
For he remembered his holy promise to Abraham his servant, 

###### 43 
And he brought forth his people with joy, _and_ his chosen with gladness, 

###### 44 
And gave them the lands of the heathen, and they took the labors of the people in possession, 

###### 45 
That they might keep his statutes, and observe his Laws. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 104|← 19 - Psalms 104]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 106|19 - Psalms 106 →]])
