# 19 - Psalms 103

(previous:: [[Ps 102|← 19 - Psalms 102]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 104|19 - Psalms 104 →]])

***


###### 1 
My soul, praise thou the Lord, and all that is within me, _praise_ his holy Name. 

###### 2 
My soul, praise thou the Lord, and forget not all his benefits. 

###### 3 
Which forgiveth all thine iniquity, and healeth all thine infirmities. 

###### 4 
Which redeemeth thy life from the grave; and crowneth thee with mercy and compassions. 

###### 5 
Which satisfieth thy mouth with good things: and thy youth is renewed like the eagle's. 

###### 6 
The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment to all that are oppressed. 

###### 7 
He made his ways known unto Moses, _and_ his works unto the children of Israel. 

###### 8 
The Lord is full of compassion and mercy, slow to anger and of great kindness. 

###### 9 
He will not always chide, neither keep _his anger_ forever. 

###### 10 
He hath not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. 

###### 11 
For as high as the heaven is above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. 

###### 12 
As far as the East is from the West: so far hath he removed our sins from us. 

###### 13 
As a father hath compassion on his children, so hath the Lord compassion on them that fear him. 

###### 14 
For he knoweth whereof we be made: he remembereth that we are but dust. 

###### 15 
The days of man are as grass: as a flower of the field, so flourisheth he. 

###### 16 
For the wind goeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. 

###### 17 
But the loving kindness of the Lord _endureth_ forever and ever upon them that fear him, and his righteousness upon children's children, 

###### 18 
Unto them that keep his covenant, and think upon his commandments to do them. 

###### 19 
The Lord hath prepared his throne in heaven, and his kingdom ruleth over all. 

###### 20 
Praise the Lord, ye his Angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandment in obeying the voice of his word. 

###### 21 
Praise the Lord all ye his hosts, ye his servants that do his pleasure. 

###### 22 
Praise the Lord all ye his works, in all places of his dominion: my soul, praise thou the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 102|← 19 - Psalms 102]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 104|19 - Psalms 104 →]])
