# 19 - Psalms 109

(previous:: [[Ps 108|← 19 - Psalms 108]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 110|19 - Psalms 110 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hold not thy tongue, O God of my praise. 

###### 2 
For the mouth of the wicked, and the mouth _full_ of deceit are opened upon me: they have spoken to me with a lying tongue. 

###### 3 
They compassed me about also with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause. 

###### 4 
For my friendship they were my adversaries, but I gave myself to prayer. 

###### 5 
And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my friendship. 

###### 6 
Set thou the wicked over him, and let the adversary stand at his right hand. 

###### 7 
When he shall be judged, let him be condemned, and let his prayer be turned into sin. 

###### 8 
Let his days be few, and let another take his charge. 

###### 9 
Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 

###### 10 
Let his children be vagabonds, and beg and seek _bread, coming out_ of their places destroyed. 

###### 11 
Let the extortioner catch all that he hath, and let the strangers spoil his labor. 

###### 12 
Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to show mercy upon his fatherless children. 

###### 13 
Let his posterity be destroyed, _and_ in the generation following, let their name be put out. 

###### 14 
Let the iniquity of his fathers be had in remembrance with the Lord: and let not the sin of his mother be done away. 

###### 15 
_But_ let them always be before the Lord, that he may cut off their memorial from the earth. 

###### 16 
Because he remembered not to show mercy, but persecuted the afflicted and poor man, and the sorrowful hearted to slay him. 

###### 17 
As he loved cursing, so shall it come unto him, _and_ as he loved not blessing, so shall it be far from him. 

###### 18 
As he clothed himself with cursing like a raiment, so shall it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones. 

###### 19 
Let it be unto him as a garment to cover him, and for a girdle, wherewith he shall be always girded. 

###### 20 
Let this be the reward of mine adversary from the Lord, and of them that speak evil against my soul. 

###### 21 
But thou, O Lord my God, deal with me according unto thy Name: deliver me, (for thy mercy is good) 

###### 22 
Because I am poor and needy, and mine heart is wounded within me. 

###### 23 
I depart like the shadow that declineth, and am shaken off as the grasshopper. 

###### 24 
My knees are weak through fasting, and my flesh hath lost _all_ fatness. 

###### 25 
I became also a rebuke unto them: they that looked upon me, shaked their heads. 

###### 26 
Help me, O Lord my God: save me according to thy mercy. 

###### 27 
And they shall know that this is thine hand, _and that_ thou, Lord, hast done it. 

###### 28 
_Though_ they curse, yet thou wilt bless: they shall arise and be confounded, but thy servant shall rejoice. 

###### 29 
Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their confusion as with a cloak. 

###### 30 
I will give thanks unto the Lord greatly with my mouth, and praise him among the multitude. 

###### 31 
For he will stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from them that would condemn his soul.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 108|← 19 - Psalms 108]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 110|19 - Psalms 110 →]])
