# 19 - Psalms 115

(previous:: [[Ps 114|← 19 - Psalms 114]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 116|19 - Psalms 116 →]])

***


###### 1 
Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy Name give the glory for thy loving mercy, _and_ for thy truth's sake. 

###### 2 
Wherefore shall the heathen say, Where is now their God? 

###### 3 
But our God _is_ in heaven: he doeth whatsoever he will. 

###### 4 
Their idols _are_ silver and gold, _even_ the work of men's hands. 

###### 5 
They have a mouth, and speak not: they have eyes, and see not. 

###### 6 
They have ears, and hear not: they have noses and smell not. 

###### 7 
They have hands, and touch not: they have feet, and walk not: neither make they a sound with their throat. 

###### 8 
They that make them are like unto them: _so are_ all that trust in them. 

###### 9 
O Israel, trust thou in the Lord: _for_ he is their help, and their shield. 

###### 10 
O house of Aaron trust ye in the Lord, _for_ he is their help, and their shield. 

###### 11 
Ye that fear the Lord, trust in the Lord: _for_ he is their helper, and their shield. 

###### 12 
The Lord hath been mindful of us, he will bless, he will bless the house of Israel, he will bless the house of Aaron. 

###### 13 
He will bless them that fear the Lord, both small and great. 

###### 14 
The Lord will increase _his graces_ toward you, _even_ toward you, and toward your children. 

###### 15 
Ye are blessed of the Lord, which made the heaven and the earth. 

###### 16 
The heavens, _even_ the heavens _are_ the Lord's: but he hath given the earth to the sons of men. 

###### 17 
The dead praise not the Lord, neither any that go down into the _place of_ silence. 

###### 18 
But we will praise the Lord from henceforth and forever. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 114|← 19 - Psalms 114]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 116|19 - Psalms 116 →]])
