# 19 - Psalms 135

(previous:: [[Ps 134|← 19 - Psalms 134]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 136|19 - Psalms 136 →]])

***


###### 1 
Praise, the Name of the Lord; ye servants of the Lord, praise _him_. 

###### 2 
Ye that stand in the House of the Lord, _and_ in the courts of the House of our God, 

###### 3 
Praise ye the Lord: for the Lord is good: sing praises unto his Name: for it is a comely thing. 

###### 4 
For the Lord hath chosen Jacob to himself, _and_ Israel for his chief treasure. 

###### 5 
For I know that the Lord _is_ great, and that our Lord _is_ above all gods. 

###### 6 
Whatsoever pleased the Lord, that did he in heaven and in earth, in the sea, and in all the depths. 

###### 7 
He bringeth up the clouds from the ends of the earth, and maketh the lightnings with the rain: he draweth forth the wind out of his treasures. 

###### 8 
He smote the firstborn of Egypt both of man and beast. 

###### 9 
He hath sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants. 

###### 10 
He smote many nations, and slew mighty Kings: 

###### 11 
_As_ Sihon King of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan: 

###### 12 
And gave their land for an inheritance, _even_ an inheritance unto Israel his people. 

###### 13 
Thy Name, O Lord, _endureth_ forever: O Lord, thy remembrance _is_ from generation to generation. 

###### 14 
For the Lord will judge his people, and be pacified toward his servants. 

###### 15 
The idols of the heathen _are_ silver and gold, _even_ the work of men's hands. 

###### 16 
They have a mouth, and speak not: they have eyes and see not. 

###### 17 
They have ears and hear not, neither is there any breath in their mouth. 

###### 18 
They that make them, are like unto them: _so are_ all that trust in them. 

###### 19 
Praise the Lord, ye house of Israel: praise the Lord, ye house of Aaron. 

###### 20 
Praise the Lord, ye house of Levi; ye that fear the Lord, praise the Lord. 

###### 21 
Praised _be_ the Lord out of Zion, which dwelleth in Jerusalem. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 134|← 19 - Psalms 134]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 136|19 - Psalms 136 →]])
