# 19 - Psalms 144

(previous:: [[Ps 143|← 19 - Psalms 143]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 145|19 - Psalms 145 →]])

***


###### 1 
Blessed _be_ the Lord my strength, which teacheth mine hands to fight, _and_ my fingers to battle. 

###### 2 
_He is_ my goodness and my fortress, my tower and my deliverer, my shield and in him I trust, which subdueth my people under me. 

###### 3 
Lord, what is man that thou regardest him! _or_ the son of man that thou thinkest upon him? 

###### 4 
Man is like to vanity; his days _are_ like a shadow that vanisheth. 

###### 5 
Bow thine heavens, O Lord, and come down; touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. 

###### 6 
Cast forth the lightning and scatter them; shoot out thine arrows and consume them. 

###### 7 
Send thine hand from above: deliver me, and take me out of the great waters, _and_ from the hand of strangers, 

###### 8 
Whose mouth talketh vanity, and their right hand _is_ a right hand of falsehood. 

###### 9 
I will sing a new song unto thee, O God, _and_ sing unto thee upon a viol, _and_ an instrument of ten strings. 

###### 10 
_It is he_ that giveth deliverance unto kings, _and_ rescueth David his servant from the hurtful sword. 

###### 11 
Rescue me, and deliver me from the hand of strangers, whose mouth talketh vanity, and their right hand _is_ a right hand of falsehood: 

###### 12 
That our sons _may be_ as the plants growing up in their youth, _and_ our daughters as the corner _stones_, graven after the similitude of a palace: 

###### 13 
That our corners _may be_ full _and_ abounding with divers sorts, _and_ that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousand in our streets. 

###### 14 
That our oxen may be strong to labor; that there be none invasion, nor going out, nor no crying in our streets. 

###### 15 
Blessed _are_ the people, that be so, _yea_ blessed _are_ the people whose God is the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 143|← 19 - Psalms 143]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 145|19 - Psalms 145 →]])
