# 19 - Psalms 140

(previous:: [[Ps 139|← 19 - Psalms 139]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 141|19 - Psalms 141 →]])

***


###### 1 
Deliver me, O Lord, from the evil man: preserve me from the cruel man: 

###### 2 
Which imagine evil things in _their_ heart, _and_ make war continually. 

###### 3 
They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent: adders' poison _is_ under their lips. Selah. 

###### 4 
Keep me, O Lord, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the cruel man, which purposeth to cause my steps to slide. 

###### 5 
The proud have laid a snare for me, and spread a net with cords in my pathway, _and_ set gins for me. Selah. 

###### 6 
_Therefore_ I said unto the Lord, Thou art my God: hear, O Lord, the voice of my prayers. 

###### 7 
O Lord God the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. 

###### 8 
Let not the wicked have his desire, O Lord; perform not his wicked thought, _lest_ they be proud. Selah. 

###### 9 
_As for_ the chief of them that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips come upon them. 

###### 10 
Let coals fall upon them: let him cast them into the fire, _and_ into the deep pits that they rise not. 

###### 11 
_For_ the backbiter shall not be established upon the earth, evil shall hunt the cruel man to destruction. 

###### 12 
I know that the Lord will avenge the afflicted, _and_ judge the poor. 

###### 13 
Surely the righteous shall praise thy Name, _and_ the just shall dwell in thy presence.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 139|← 19 - Psalms 139]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 141|19 - Psalms 141 →]])
