# 19 - Psalms 106

(previous:: [[Ps 105|← 19 - Psalms 105]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 107|19 - Psalms 107 →]])

***


###### 1 
Praise ye the Lord because he is good, for his mercy _endureth_ forever. 

###### 2 
Who can express the noble acts of the Lord, _or_ show forth all his praise? 

###### 3 
Blessed _are_ they that keep judgment, and do righteousness at all times. 

###### 4 
Remember me, O Lord, with the favor of thy people: visit me with thy salvation, 

###### 5 
That I may see the felicity of thy chosen, and rejoice in the joy of thy people, and glory with thine inheritance. 

###### 6 
We have sinned with our fathers: we have committed iniquity, _and_ done wickedly. 

###### 7 
Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt, neither remembered they the multitude of thy mercies, but rebelled at the Sea, _even_ at the red sea. 

###### 8 
Nevertheless he saved them for his Name's sake, that he might make his power to be known. 

###### 9 
And he rebuked the red sea, and it was dried up, and he led them in the deep, as in the wilderness. 

###### 10 
And he saved them from the adversary's hand, and delivered them from the hand of the enemy. 

###### 11 
And the waters covered their oppressors: not one of them was left. 

###### 12 
Then believed they his words, _and_ sang praise unto him. 

###### 13 
But incontinently they forgat his works, they waited not for his counsel, 

###### 14 
But lusted with concupiscence in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. 

###### 15 
Then he gave them their desire: but he sent leanness into their soul. 

###### 16 
They envied Moses also in the tents, _and_ Aaron the holy one of the Lord. 

###### 17 
_Therefore_ the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. 

###### 18 
And the fire was kindled in their assembly: the flame burnt up the wicked. 

###### 19 
They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image. 

###### 20 
Thus they turned their glory into the similitude of a bullock, that eateth grass. 

###### 21 
They forgat God their Savior, which had done great things in Egypt, 

###### 22 
Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and fearful things by the red sea. 

###### 23 
Therefore he minded to destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood in the breach before him to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy _them_. 

###### 24 
Also they contemned that pleasant land, _and_ believed not his word, 

###### 25 
But murmured in their tents, _and_ hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord. 

###### 26 
Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to destroy them in the wilderness, 

###### 27 
And to destroy their seed among the nations, and to scatter them throughout the countries. 

###### 28 
They joined themselves also unto Baal of Peor, and did eat the offerings of the dead. 

###### 29 
Thus they provoked _him_ unto anger with their own inventions, and the plague brake in upon them. 

###### 30 
But Phinehas stood up, and executed judgment, and the plague was stayed. 

###### 31 
And it was imputed unto him for righteousness from generation to generation forever. 

###### 32 
They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, so that Moses was punished for their sakes, 

###### 33 
Because they vexed his Spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips. 

###### 34 
Neither destroyed they the people, as the Lord had commanded them, 

###### 35 
But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works, 

###### 36 
And served their idols, which were their ruin. 

###### 37 
Yea, they offered their sons, and their daughters unto devils, 

###### 38 
And shed innocent blood, _even_ the blood of their sons, and of their daughters whom they offered unto the idols of Canaan, and the land was defiled with blood. 

###### 39 
Thus were they stained with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions. 

###### 40 
Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, and he abhorred his own inheritance. 

###### 41 
And he gave them into the hand of the heathen: and they that hated them were lords over them. 

###### 42 
Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were humbled under their hand. 

###### 43 
Many a time did he deliver them, but they provoked him by their counsels: therefore they were brought down by their iniquity. 

###### 44 
Yet he saw when they were in affliction, and he heard their cry. 

###### 45 
And he remembered his covenant toward them, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies, 

###### 46 
And gave them favor in the sight of all them that led them captives. 

###### 47 
Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the heathen, that we may praise thine holy Name, and glory in thy praise. 

###### 48 
Blessed _be_ the Lord God of Israel forever and ever, and let all the people say, So be it. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 105|← 19 - Psalms 105]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 107|19 - Psalms 107 →]])
