# 19 - Psalms 102

(previous:: [[Ps 101|← 19 - Psalms 101]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 103|19 - Psalms 103 →]])

***


###### 1 
O Lord hear my prayer, and let my cry come unto thee. 

###### 2 
Hide not thy face from me in the time of my trouble: incline thine ears unto me, when I call, make haste to hear me. 

###### 3 
For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burnt like an hearth. 

###### 4 
Mine heart is smitten, and withered like grass, because I forgat to eat my bread. 

###### 5 
For the voice of my groaning, my bones do cleave to my skin. 

###### 6 
I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the deserts. 

###### 7 
I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top. 

###### 8 
Mine enemies revile me daily, _and_ they that rage against me, have sworn against me. 

###### 9 
Surely I have eaten ashes as bread, and mingled my drink with weeping, 

###### 10 
Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast heaved me up, and cast me down. 

###### 11 
My days _are_ like a shadow that fadeth, and I am withered like grass. 

###### 12 
But thou, O Lord, dost remain forever, and thy remembrance from generation to generation. 

###### 13 
Thou wilt arise _and_ have mercy upon Zion: for the time to have mercy thereon, for the appointed time is come. 

###### 14 
For thy servants delight in the stones thereof, and have pity on the dust thereof. 

###### 15 
Then the heathen shall fear the Name of the Lord, and all the kings of the earth thy glory, 

###### 16 
When the Lord shall build up Zion, _and_ shall appear in his glory, 

###### 17 
_And_ shall turn unto the prayer of the desolate, and not despise their prayer. 

###### 18 
This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created, shall praise the Lord. 

###### 19 
For he hath looked down from the height of his Sanctuary: out of the heaven did the Lord behold the earth, 

###### 20 
That he might hear the mourning of the prisoner, and deliver the children of death. 

###### 21 
That they may declare the Name of the Lord in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem, 

###### 22 
When the people shall be gathered together, and the kingdoms to serve the Lord. 

###### 23 
He abated my strength in the way, _and_ shortened my days. 

###### 24 
_And_ I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years _endure_ from generation to generation. 

###### 25 
Thou hast aforetime laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens _are_ the work of thine hands. 

###### 26 
They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: even they all shall wax old as doth a garment: as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed. 

###### 27 
But thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. 

###### 28 
The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall stand fast in thy sight.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 101|← 19 - Psalms 101]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 103|19 - Psalms 103 →]])
