# 19 - Psalms 104

(previous:: [[Ps 103|← 19 - Psalms 103]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 105|19 - Psalms 105 →]])

***


###### 1 
My soul, praise thou the Lord: O Lord my God, thou art exceeding great, thou art clothed with glory and honor. 

###### 2 
Which covereth himself with light, as with a garment, _and_ spreadeth the heavens like a curtain. 

###### 3 
Which layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters, and maketh the clouds his chariot, and walketh upon the wings of the wind. 

###### 4 
Which maketh the spirits his messengers, _and_ a flaming fire his ministers. 

###### 5 
He set the earth upon her foundations, so that it shall never move. 

###### 6 
Thou coverest it with the deep as with a garment: the waters would stand above the mountains. 

###### 7 
_But_ at thy rebuke they flee: at the voice of thy thunder they haste away. 

###### 8 
_And_ the mountains ascend, _and_ the valleys descend to the place which thou hast established for them. 

###### 9 
_But_ thou hast set them a bound which they shall not pass: they shall not return to cover the earth. 

###### 10 
He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run between the mountains. 

###### 11 
They shall give drink to all the beasts of the field, and the wild asses shall quench their thirst. 

###### 12 
By these springs shall the fowls of the heaven dwell, and sing among the branches. 

###### 13 
He watereth the mountains from his chambers, _and_ the earth is filled with the fruit of thy works. 

###### 14 
He causeth grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the use of man, that he may bring forth bread out of the earth, 

###### 15 
And wine _that_ maketh glad the heart of man, _and_ oil to make his face to shine, and bread _that_ strengtheneth man's heart. 

###### 16 
The high trees are satisfied, _even_ the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted, 

###### 17 
That the birds may make their nests there: the stork dwelleth in the fir trees. 

###### 18 
The high mountains _are_ for the goats: the rocks _are_ a refuge for the conies. 

###### 19 
He appointed the moon for certain seasons: the sun knoweth his going down. 

###### 20 
Thou makest darkness, and it is night, wherein all the beasts of the forest creep forth. 

###### 21 
The lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat at God. 

###### 22 
_When _the sun riseth, they retire, and couch in their dens. 

###### 23 
_Then_ goeth man forth to his work, and to his labor until the evening. 

###### 24 
O Lord, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches. 

###### 25 
_So is_ the sea great and wide: _for_ therein _are_ things creeping innumerable, both small beasts and great. 

###### 26 
There go the ships, _yea_ that Leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein. 

###### 27 
All these wait upon thee, that thou mayest give them food in due season. 

###### 28 
Thou givest it to them, _and_ they gather it, thou openest thy hand, _and_ they are filled with good things. 

###### 29 
_But if_ thou hide thy face, they are troubled: _if_ thou take away their breath, they die and return to their dust: 

###### 30 
_Again if_ thou send forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou renewest the face of the earth. 

###### 31 
Glory be to the Lord forever: let the Lord rejoice in his works. 

###### 32 
He looketh on the earth and it trembleth: he toucheth the mountains, and they smoke. 

###### 33 
I will sing unto the Lord _all_ my life: I will praise my God, while I live. 

###### 34 
Let my words be acceptable unto him: I will rejoice in the Lord. 

###### 35 
Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and the wicked till there be no more: O my soul, praise thou the Lord. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 103|← 19 - Psalms 103]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 105|19 - Psalms 105 →]])
