# 19 - Psalms 143

(previous:: [[Ps 142|← 19 - Psalms 142]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 144|19 - Psalms 144 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hear my prayer, O Lord, _and_ hearken unto my supplication: answer me in thy truth, _and_ in thy righteousness. 

###### 2 
(And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall none that liveth, be justified.) 

###### 3 
For the enemy hath persecuted my soul: he hath smitten my life down to the earth: he hath laid me in the darkness, as they that have been dead long ago: 

###### 4 
And my spirit was in perplexity in me, _and_ mine heart within me was amazed. 

###### 5 
_Yet_ do I remember the time past: I meditate in all thy works, _yea_, I do meditate in the works of thine hands. 

###### 6 
I stretch forth mine hands unto thee: my soul desireth after thee, as the thirsty land. Selah. 

###### 7 
Hear me speedily, O Lord, _for_ my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, else I shall be like unto them that go down into the pit. 

###### 8 
Let me hear thy loving-kindness in the morning, for in thee is my trust; show me the way, that I should walk in, for I lift up my soul unto thee. 

###### 9 
Deliver me, O Lord, from mine enemies: _for_ I hid me with thee. 

###### 10 
Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God: let thy good Spirit lead me unto the land of righteousness. 

###### 11 
Quicken me, O Lord, for thy Name's sake, _and_ for thy righteousness bring my soul out of trouble. 

###### 12 
And for thy mercy slay mine enemies, and destroy all them that oppress my soul: for I am thy servant.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 142|← 19 - Psalms 142]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 144|19 - Psalms 144 →]])
