# 19 - Psalms 139

(previous:: [[Ps 138|← 19 - Psalms 138]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 140|19 - Psalms 140 →]])

***


###### 1 
O Lord, thou hast tried me, and known _me_. 

###### 2 
Thou knowest my sitting and my rising: thou understandest my thought afar off. 

###### 3 
Thou compassest my paths, and my lying down, and art accustomed to all my ways. 

###### 4 
For there is not a word in my tongue, _but_ lo, thou knowest it wholly, O Lord. 

###### 5 
Thou holdest me strait behind and before, and layest thine hand upon me. 

###### 6 
_Thy_ knowledge is too wonderful for me: it is so high that I cannot _attain_ unto it. 

###### 7 
Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence? 

###### 8 
If I ascend into heaven, thou art there: if I lie down in hell, thou art there. 

###### 9 
Let me take the wings of the morning, _and_ dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea: 

###### 10 
Yet thither shall thine hand lead me, and thy right hand hold me. 

###### 11 
If I say, Yet the darkness shall hide me, even the night _shall be_ light about me. 

###### 12 
Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee: but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and light are both alike. 

###### 13 
For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. 

###### 14 
I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wondrously made: marvelous _are_ thy works, and my soul knoweth it well. 

###### 15 
My bones are not hid from thee, though I was made in a secret _place, and_ fashioned beneath in the earth. 

###### 16 
Thine eyes did see me, when I was without form: for in thy book were all things written, _which_ in continuance were fashioned, when there was none of them _before_. 

###### 17 
How dear therefore are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them! 

###### 18 
If I should count them, they are more than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee. 

###### 19 
Oh that thou wouldest [slay], O God, the wicked and bloody men, _to whom I say_, Depart ye from me: 

###### 20 
Which speak wickedly of thee, _and_ being thine enemies are lifted up in vain. 

###### 21 
Do not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee? and do not I earnestly contend with those that rise up against thee? 

###### 22 
I hate them with an unfeigned hatred, as they were mine _utter_ enemies. 

###### 23 
Try me, O God, and know mine heart: prove me and know my thoughts, 

###### 24 
And consider if there be any way of wickedness in me, and lead me in the way forever.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 138|← 19 - Psalms 138]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 140|19 - Psalms 140 →]])
