# 19 - Psalms 132

(previous:: [[Ps 131|← 19 - Psalms 131]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 133|19 - Psalms 133 →]])

***


###### 1 
Lord, remember David with all his affliction, 

###### 2 
Who sware unto the Lord, _and_ vowed unto the mighty _God,_ of Jacob, _saying_, 

###### 3 
I will not enter into the Tabernacle of mine house, nor come upon my pallet _or_ bed, 

###### 4 
Nor suffer mine eyes to sleep, nor mine eyelids to slumber, 

###### 5 
Until I find out a place for the Lord, an habitation for the mighty _God_ of Jacob. 

###### 6 
Lo, we heard of it in Ephrathah, _and_ found it in the fields of the forest. 

###### 7 
We will enter into his Tabernacles, _and_ worship before his footstool. 

###### 8 
Arise, O Lord, _to come_ into thy rest, thou, and the Ark of thy strength. 

###### 9 
Let thy Priests be clothed with righteousness, and let thy Saints rejoice. 

###### 10 
For thy servant David's sake refuse not the face of thine Anointed. 

###### 11 
The Lord hath sworn in truth unto David, and he will not shrink from it, _saying_, Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne. 

###### 12 
If thy sons keep my Covenant, and my testimonies, that I shall teach them, their sons also shall sit upon thy throne forever. 

###### 13 
For the Lord hath chosen Zion, _and_ loved to dwell in it, _saying_, 

###### 14 
This is my rest forever: here will I dwell, for I have a delight therein. 

###### 15 
I will surely bless her vittles, _and_ will satisfy her poor with bread, 

###### 16 
And will clothe her Priests with salvation, and her Saints shall shout for joy. 

###### 17 
There will I make the horn of David to bud: _for_ I have ordained a light for mine Anointed. 

###### 18 
His enemies will I clothe with shame, but on him his crown shall flourish.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 131|← 19 - Psalms 131]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 133|19 - Psalms 133 →]])
