# 19 - Psalms 147

(previous:: [[Ps 146|← 19 - Psalms 146]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 148|19 - Psalms 148 →]])

***


###### 1 
Praise ye the Lord, for it is good to sing unto our God: for it is a pleasant thing, _and_ praise is comely. 

###### 2 
The Lord doth build up Jerusalem, _and_ gather together the dispersed of Israel. 

###### 3 
He healeth those that are broken in heart, and bindeth up their sores. 

###### 4 
He counteth the number of the stars, _and_ calleth them all by their names. 

###### 5 
Great _is_ our Lord, and great _is his_ power: his wisdom is infinite. 

###### 6 
The Lord relieveth the meek, _and_ abaseth the wicked to the ground. 

###### 7 
Sing unto the Lord with praise: sing upon the harp unto our God, 

###### 8 
Which covereth the heaven with clouds, and prepareth rain for the earth, and maketh the grass to grow upon the mountains: 

###### 9 
Which giveth to beasts their food, _and_ to the young ravens that cry. 

###### 10 
He hath no pleasure in the strength of an horse, neither delighteth he in the legs of man. 

###### 11 
_But_ the Lord delighteth in them that fear him, and attend upon his mercy. 

###### 12 
Praise the Lord, O Jerusalem: praise thy God, O Zion. 

###### 13 
For he hath made the bars of the gates strong, _and_ hath blessed thy children within thee. 

###### 14 
He setteth peace in thy borders, _and_ satisfieth thee with the flour of wheat. 

###### 15 
He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth, _and_ his word runneth very swiftly. 

###### 16 
He giveth snow like wool, _and_ scattereth the hoary frost like ashes. 

###### 17 
He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can abide the cold thereof? 

###### 18 
He sendeth his word and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, _and_ the waters flow. 

###### 19 
He showeth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel. 

###### 20 
He hath not dealt so with every nation, neither have they known _his_ judgments. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 146|← 19 - Psalms 146]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 148|19 - Psalms 148 →]])
