# 19 - Psalms 116

(previous:: [[Ps 115|← 19 - Psalms 115]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 117|19 - Psalms 117 →]])

***


###### 1 
I love the Lord, because he hath heard my voice _and_ my prayers. 

###### 2 
For he hath inclined his ear unto me, when I did call _upon him_ in my days. 

###### 3 
_When_ the snares of death compassed me, and the griefs of the grave caught me: _When_ I found trouble and sorrow. 

###### 4 
Then I called upon the Name of the Lord, _saying_, I beseech thee, O Lord, deliver my soul. 

###### 5 
The Lord _is_ merciful and righteous, and our God _is_ full of compassion. 

###### 6 
The Lord preserveth the simple: I was in misery, and he saved me. 

###### 7 
Return unto thy rest, O my soul: for the Lord hath been beneficial unto thee, 

###### 8 
Because thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, _and_ my feet from falling. 

###### 9 
I shall walk before the Lord in the land of the living. 

###### 10 
I believed, therefore did I speak: _for_ I was sore troubled. 

###### 11 
I said in my fear, All men are liars. 

###### 12 
What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits toward me? 

###### 13 
I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the Name of the Lord. 

###### 14 
I will pay my vows unto the Lord, _even_ now in the presence of all his people. 

###### 15 
Precious in the sight of the Lord _is_ the death of his Saints. 

###### 16 
Behold, Lord: for I am thy servant, I am thy servant, _and_ the son of thine handmaid: thou hast broken my bonds. 

###### 17 
I will offer to thee a sacrifice of praise, and will call upon the Name of the Lord. 

###### 18 
I will pay my vows unto the Lord, _even_ now in the presence of all his people, 

###### 19 
In the courts of the Lord's house, _even_ in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 115|← 19 - Psalms 115]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 117|19 - Psalms 117 →]])
