# 19 - Psalms 19

(previous:: [[Ps 18|← 19 - Psalms 18]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 20|19 - Psalms 20 →]])

***


###### 1 
The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth the work of his hands. 

###### 2 
Day unto day uttereth the same, and night unto night teacheth knowledge. 

###### 3 
_There is_ no speech nor language, _where_ their voice is not heard. 

###### 4 
Their line is gone forth through all the earth, and their words into the ends of the world: in them hath he set a tabernacle for the Sun. 

###### 5 
Which cometh forth as a bridegroom out of his chamber, _and_ rejoiceth like a mighty man to run _his_ race. 

###### 6 
His going out _is_ from the end of the heaven, and his compass _is_ unto the ends of the same, and none is hid from the heat thereof. 

###### 7 
The Law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the Lord is sure, and giveth wisdom unto the simple. 

###### 8 
The statutes of the Lord _are_ right, and rejoice the heart, the commandment of the Lord _is_ pure, and giveth light unto the eyes. 

###### 9 
The fear of the Lord _is_ clean, and endureth forever: the judgments of the Lord _are_ truth: they are righteous altogether, 

###### 10 
And more to be desired than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey, and the honeycomb. 

###### 11 
Moreover by them _is_ thy servant made circumspect, _and_ in keeping of them there _is great_ reward. 

###### 12 
Who can understand _his_ faults? cleanse me from secret _faults_. 

###### 13 
Keep thy servant also from presumptuous sins: let them not reign over me: so shall I be upright, and made clean from much wickedness. 

###### 14 
Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of mine heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord my strength, and my redeemer.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 18|← 19 - Psalms 18]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 20|19 - Psalms 20 →]])
