# 19 - Psalms 17

(previous:: [[Ps 16|← 19 - Psalms 16]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 18|19 - Psalms 18 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hear the right, O Lord, consider my cry: hearken unto my prayer of lips unfeigned. 

###### 2 
Let my sentence come forth from thy presence, _and_ let thine eyes behold equity. 

###### 3 
Thou hast proved and visited mine heart in the night: thou hast tried me, _and_ foundest nothing: _for_ I was purposed that my mouth should not offend. 

###### 4 
Concerning the works of men, by the words of thy lips I kept me from the paths of the cruel man. 

###### 5 
Stay my steps in thy paths, that my feet do not slide. 

###### 6 
I have called upon thee: surely thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear to me, _and_ hearken unto my words. 

###### 7 
Show thy marvelous mercies: _thou_ that art the Savior of them that trust _in thee_, from such as resist thy right hand. 

###### 8 
Keep me as the apple of the eye: hide me under the shadow of thy wings, 

###### 9 
From the wicked that oppress me, _from mine_ enemies, which compass me round about for _my_ soul. 

###### 10 
They are enclosed in their own fat, _and_ they have spoken proudly with their mouth. 

###### 11 
They have compassed us now in our steps: they have set their eyes to bring down to the ground: 

###### 12 
Like as a lion that is greedy of prey, and as it were a Lion's whelp lurking in secret places. 

###### 13 
Up Lord, disappoint him: cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked with thy sword, 

###### 14 
From men by thine hand, O Lord, from men of the world, who have their portion in this life, whose bellies thou fillest with thine hid treasure: their children have enough, and leave the rest of their substance for their children. 

###### 15 
_But_ I will behold thy face in righteousness, _and_ when I wake, I shall be satisfied with thine image.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 16|← 19 - Psalms 16]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 18|19 - Psalms 18 →]])
