# 19 - Psalms 118

(previous:: [[Ps 117|← 19 - Psalms 117]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 119|19 - Psalms 119 →]])

***


###### 1 
Praise ye the Lord, because he is good: for his mercy _endureth_ forever. 

###### 2 
Let Israel now say, That his mercy _endureth_ forever. 

###### 3 
Let the house of Aaron now say, That his mercy _endureth_ forever. 

###### 4 
Let them that fear the Lord, now say, That his mercy _endureth_ forever. 

###### 5 
I called upon the Lord in trouble, _and_ the Lord heard me, _and set me_ at large. 

###### 6 
The Lord _is_ with me: _therefore I_ will not fear what man can do unto me. 

###### 7 
The Lord _is_ with me among them that help me: therefore shall I see _my desire_ upon mine enemies. 

###### 8 
It is better to trust in the Lord, than to have confidence in man. 

###### 9 
It is better to trust in the Lord, than to have confidence in princes. 

###### 10 
All nations have compassed me: but in the Name of the Lord shall I destroy them. 

###### 11 
They have compassed me, yea, they have compassed me: but in the Name of the Lord I shall destroy them. 

###### 12 
They came about me like bees, _but_ they were quenched as a fire of thorns: for in the Name of the Lord I shall destroy them. 

###### 13 
Thou hast thrust sore at me, that I might fall: but the Lord hath helped me. 

###### 14 
The Lord _is_ my strength and song: for he hath been my deliverance. 

###### 15 
The voice of joy and deliverance _shall be_ in the tabernacles of the righteous, _saying_, The right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly. 

###### 16 
The right hand of the Lord is exalted: the right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly. 

###### 17 
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the Lord. 

###### 18 
The Lord had chastened me sore, but he hath not delivered me to death. 

###### 19 
Open ye unto me the gates of righteousness, _that_ I may go into them, _and_ praise the Lord. 

###### 20 
This is the gate of the Lord: the righteous shall enter into it. 

###### 21 
I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and hast been my deliverance. 

###### 22 
The stone, _which_ the builders refused, is the head of the corner. 

###### 23 
This was the Lord's doing, _and_ it is marvelous in our eyes, 

###### 24 
This is the day, _which_ the Lord hath made: let us rejoice and be glad in it. 

###### 25 
O Lord, I pray thee, save now: O Lord, I pray thee now give prosperity. 

###### 26 
Blessed _be he_, that cometh in the Name of the Lord: we have blessed you out of the house of the Lord. 

###### 27 
The Lord _is_ mighty, and hath given us light: bind the sacrifice with cords unto the horns of the altar. 

###### 28 
Thou art my God, and I will praise thee, _even_ my God: therefore I will exalt thee. 

###### 29 
Praise ye the Lord, because he is good: for his mercy _endureth_ forever.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 117|← 19 - Psalms 117]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 119|19 - Psalms 119 →]])
