# 19 - Psalms 145

(previous:: [[Ps 144|← 19 - Psalms 144]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 146|19 - Psalms 146 →]])

***


###### 1 
O my God _and_ King, I will extol thee, and will bless thy Name forever and ever. 

###### 2 
I will bless thee daily, and praise thy Name forever and ever. 

###### 3 
Great _is_ the Lord, and most worthy to be praised, and his greatness _is_ incomprehensible. 

###### 4 
Generation shall praise thy works unto generation, and declare thy power. 

###### 5 
I will meditate of the beauty of thy glorious majesty, and thy wonderful works. 

###### 6 
And they shall speak of the power of thy dreadful acts, and I will declare thy greatness. 

###### 7 
They shall break out into the mention of thy great goodness, and shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. 

###### 8 
The Lord is gracious, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great mercy. 

###### 9 
The Lord is good to all, and his mercies _are_ over all his works. 

###### 10 
All thy works praise thee, O Lord, and thy Saints bless thee. 

###### 11 
They show the glory of thy kingdom, and speak of thy power, 

###### 12 
To cause his power to be known to the sons of men, and the glorious renown of his kingdom. 

###### 13 
Thy kingdom _is_ an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion _endureth_ throughout all ages. 

###### 14 
The Lord upholdeth all that fall, and lifteth up all that are ready to fall. 

###### 15 
The eyes of all wait upon thee, and thou givest them their meat in due season. 

###### 16 
Thou openest thine hand, and fillest all things living of _thy_ good pleasure. 

###### 17 
The Lord _is_ righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works. 

###### 18 
The Lord _is_ near unto all that call upon him, _yea_, to all that call upon him in truth. 

###### 19 
He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him; he will also hear their cry, and will save them. 

###### 20 
The Lord preserveth all them that love him; but he will destroy the wicked. 

###### 21 
My mouth shall speak the praise of the Lord, and all flesh shall bless his holy Name forever and ever.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 144|← 19 - Psalms 144]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 146|19 - Psalms 146 →]])
