# 19 - Psalms 119

(previous:: [[Ps 118|← 19 - Psalms 118]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 120|19 - Psalms 120 →]])

***


###### 1 
Blessed _are_ those that are upright in _their_ way, _and_ walk in the Law of the Lord. 

###### 2 
Blessed _are_ they that keep his testimonies, _and_ seek him with their whole heart. 

###### 3 
Surely they work none iniquity, _but_ walk in his ways. 

###### 4 
Thou hast commanded to keep thy precepts diligently. 

###### 5 
Oh that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes! 

###### 6 
Then should I not be confounded, when I have respect unto all thy commandments. 

###### 7 
I will praise thee with an upright heart, when I shall learn the judgments of thy righteousness. 

###### 8 
I will keep thy statutes: forsake me not overlong. 

###### 9 
Wherewith shall a young man redress his way? in taking heed _thereto_ according to thy word. 

###### 10 
With my whole heart have I sought thee: let me not wander from thy commandments. 

###### 11 
I have hid thy promise in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee. 

###### 12 
Blessed art thou, O Lord: teach me thy statutes. 

###### 13 
With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. 

###### 14 
I have had as great delight in the way of thy testimonies, as in all riches. 

###### 15 
I will meditate in thy precepts, and consider thy ways. 

###### 16 
I will delight in thy statutes, _and_ I will not forget thy word. 

###### 17 
Be beneficial unto thy servant, _that_ I may live and keep thy word. 

###### 18 
Open mine eyes, that I may see the wonders of thy Law. 

###### 19 
I am a stranger upon earth: hide not thy commandments from me. 

###### 20 
Mine heart breaketh for the desire to thy judgments always. 

###### 21 
Thou hast destroyed the proud: cursed are they that do err from thy commandments. 

###### 22 
Remove from me shame and contempt: for I have kept thy testimonies. 

###### 23 
Princes also did sit, _and_ speak against me: _but_ thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. 

###### 24 
Also thy testimonies _are_ my delight, _and_ my counselors. 

###### 25 
My soul cleaveth to the dust: quicken me according to thy word. 

###### 26 
I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes. 

###### 27 
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts, and I will meditate in thy wondrous works. 

###### 28 
My soul melteth for heaviness: raise me up according to thy word. 

###### 29 
Take from me the way of lying, and grant me graciously thy Law. 

###### 30 
I have chosen the way of truth, _and_ thy judgments have I laid _before me_. 

###### 31 
I have cleaved to thy testimonies, O Lord: confound me not. 

###### 32 
I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge mine heart. 

###### 33 
Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes, and I will keep it unto the end. 

###### 34 
Give me understanding and I will keep thy Law, yea, I will keep it with _my_ whole heart. 

###### 35 
Direct me in the path of thy commandments: for therein is my delight. 

###### 36 
Incline mine heart unto thy testimonies: and not to covetousness. 

###### 37 
Turn away mine eyes from regarding vanity, _and_ quicken me in thy way. 

###### 38 
Stablish thy promise to thy servant, because he feareth thee. 

###### 39 
Take away my rebuke that I fear: for thy judgments are good. 

###### 40 
Behold, I desire thy commandments: quicken me in thy righteousness. 

###### 41 
And let thy loving kindness come unto me, O Lord, _and_ thy salvation according to thy promise. 

###### 42 
So shall I make answer unto my blasphemers: for I trust in thy word. 

###### 43 
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth: for I wait for thy judgments. 

###### 44 
So shall I always keep thy Law forever and ever. 

###### 45 
And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts. 

###### 46 
I will speak also of thy testimonies before Kings, and will not be ashamed. 

###### 47 
And my delight shall be in thy Commandments, which I have loved. 

###### 48 
Mine hands also will I lift up unto thy Commandments, which I have loved, and I will meditate in thy statutes. 

###### 49 
Remember the promise _made_ to thy servant, wherein thou hast caused me to trust. 

###### 50 
It is my comfort in my trouble; for thy promise hath quickened me. 

###### 51 
The proud have had me exceedingly in derision: _yet_ have I not declined from thy Law. 

###### 52 
I remembered thy judgments of old, O Lord, and have been comforted. 

###### 53 
Fear is come upon me for the wicked, that forsake thy Law. 

###### 54 
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. 

###### 55 
I have remembered thy Name, O Lord, in the night, and have kept thy Law. 

###### 56 
This I had because I kept thy precepts. 

###### 57 
O Lord, _that art_ my portion, I have determined to keep thy words. 

###### 58 
I made my supplication in thy presence with _my_ whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy promise. 

###### 59 
I have considered my ways, and turned my feet into thy testimonies. 

###### 60 
I made haste and delayed not to keep thy commandments. 

###### 61 
The bands of the wicked have robbed me: _but_ I have not forgotten thy Law. 

###### 62 
At midnight will I rise to give thanks unto thee, because of thy righteous judgments. 

###### 63 
I am companion of all them that fear thee, and keep thy precepts. 

###### 64 
The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes. 

###### 65 
O Lord, thou hast dealt graciously with thy servant, according unto thy word. 

###### 66 
Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments. 

###### 67 
Before I was afflicted, I went astray: but now I keep thy word. 

###### 68 
Thou art good and gracious: teach me thy statutes. 

###### 69 
The proud have imagined a lie against me: _but_ I will keep thy precepts with _my_ whole heart. 

###### 70 
Their heart is fat as grease, _but_ my delight is in thy Law. 

###### 71 
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn thy statutes. 

###### 72 
The Law of thy mouth is better unto me, than thousands of gold and silver. 

###### 73 
Thine hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding _therefore_, that I may learn thy commandments. 

###### 74 
So they that fear thee, seeing me, shall rejoice, because I have trusted in thy word. 

###### 75 
I know, O Lord, that thy judgments _are_ right, and that thou hast afflicted me justly. 

###### 76 
I pray thee that thy mercy may comfort me, according to thy promise unto thy servant. 

###### 77 
Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy Law _is_ my delight. 

###### 78 
Let the proud be ashamed: for they have dealt wickedly _and_ falsely with me: _but_ I meditate in thy precepts. 

###### 79 
Let such as fear thee turn unto me, and they that know thy testimonies. 

###### 80 
Let mine heart be upright in thy statutes, that I be not ashamed. 

###### 81 
My soul fainted for thy salvation: _yet_ I wait for thy word. 

###### 82 
Mine eyes fail for thy promise, saying, When wilt thou comfort me? 

###### 83 
For I am like a bottle in the smoke; _yet_ do I not forget thy statutes. 

###### 84 
How many are the days of thy servant? When wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? 

###### 85 
The proud have dug pits for me, which is not after thy Law. 

###### 86 
All thy commandments _are_ true: they persecute me falsely: help me. 

###### 87 
They had almost consumed me upon the earth: but I forsook not thy precepts. 

###### 88 
Quicken me according to thy loving kindness: so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth. 

###### 89 
O Lord, thy word endureth forever in heaven. 

###### 90 
Thy truth _is_ from generation to generation: thou hast laid the foundation of the earth, and it abideth. 

###### 91 
They continue _even_ to this day by thine ordinances: for all _are_ thy servants. 

###### 92 
Except thy law had been my delight, I should now have perished in mine affliction. 

###### 93 
I will never forget thy precepts: for by them thou hast quickened me. 

###### 94 
I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts. 

###### 95 
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: _but_ I will consider thy testimonies. 

###### 96 
I have seen an end of all perfection: _but_ thy commandment _is_ exceeding large. 

###### 97 
Oh how love I thy law! it is my meditation continually. 

###### 98 
By thy commandments thou hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me. 

###### 99 
I have had more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation. 

###### 100 
I understood more than the ancient, because I kept thy precepts. 

###### 101 
I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word. 

###### 102 
I have not declined from thy judgments: for thou didst teach me. 

###### 103 
How sweet are thy promises unto my mouth! _yea_, more than honey unto my mouth. 

###### 104 
By thy precepts I have gotten understanding: therefore I hate all the ways of falsehood. 

###### 105 
Thy word _is_ a lantern unto my feet, and a light unto my paths. 

###### 106 
I have sworn and will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. 

###### 107 
I am very sore afflicted: O Lord, quicken me according to thy word. 

###### 108 
O Lord, I beseech thee, accept the free offering of my mouth, and teach me thy judgments. 

###### 109 
My soul is continually in mine hand: yet do I not forget thy law. 

###### 110 
The wicked have laid a snare for me: but I swerved not from thy precepts. 

###### 111 
Thy testimonies have I taken _as_ an heritage forever: for they are the joy of mine heart. 

###### 112 
I have applied mine heart to fulfill thy statutes always, _even_ unto the end. 

###### 113 
I hate vain inventions: but thy Law do I love. 

###### 114 
Thou art my refuge and shield, _and_ I trust in thy word. 

###### 115 
Away from me, ye wicked: for I will keep the commandments of my God. 

###### 116 
Stablish me according to thy promise, that I may live, and disappoint me not of mine hope. 

###### 117 
Stay thou me, and I shall be safe, and I will delight continually in thy statutes. 

###### 118 
Thou hast trodden down all them that depart from thy statutes: for their deceit _is_ vain. 

###### 119 
Thou hast taken away all the wicked of the earth _like_ dross: therefore I love thy testimonies. 

###### 120 
My flesh trembleth for fear of thee, and I am afraid of thy judgments. 

###### 121 
I have executed judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressor. 

###### 122 
Answer for thy servant in that which is good, _and_ let not the proud oppress me. 

###### 123 
Mine eyes have failed _in waiting_ for thy salvation, and for thy just promise. 

###### 124 
Deal with thy servant according to thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes. 

###### 125 
I am thy servant: grant me _therefore_ understanding, that I may know thy testimonies. 

###### 126 
It is time for thee, Lord, to work: _for_ they have destroyed thy Law. 

###### 127 
Therefore love I thy commandments above gold, yea, above most fine gold. 

###### 128 
Therefore I esteem all thy precepts most just, and hate all false ways. 

###### 129 
Thy testimonies _are_ wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them. 

###### 130 
The entrance into thy words showeth light, _and_ giveth understanding to the simple. 

###### 131 
I opened my mouth, and panted, because I loved thy commandments. 

###### 132 
Look upon me and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy Name. 

###### 133 
Direct my steps in thy word, and let none iniquity have dominion over me. 

###### 134 
Deliver me from the oppression of men, and I will keep thy precepts. 

###### 135 
Show the light of thy countenance upon thy servant, and teach me thy statute. 

###### 136 
Mine eyes gush out with rivers of water, because they keep not thy Law. 

###### 137 
Righteous art thou, O Lord, and just _are_ thy judgments. 

###### 138 
Thou hast commanded justice by thy testimonies and truth especially. 

###### 139 
My zeal hath even consumed me: because mine enemies have forgotten thy words. 

###### 140 
Thy word is proved most pure, and thy servant loveth it. 

###### 141 
I am small and despised: _yet_ do I not forget thy precepts. 

###### 142 
Thy righteousness _is_ an everlasting righteousness, and thy Law _is_ truth. 

###### 143 
Trouble and anguish are come upon me: _yet are_ the commandments my delight. 

###### 144 
The righteousness of thy testimonies _is_ everlasting: grant me understanding, and I shall live. 

###### 145 
I have cried with _my_ whole heart: hear me, O Lord, _and_ I will keep thy statutes. 

###### 146 
I called upon thee: save me, and I will keep thy testimonies. 

###### 147 
I prevented the morning light, and cried: _for_ I waited on thy word. 

###### 148 
Mine eyes prevent the _night_ watches, to meditate in thy word. 

###### 149 
Hear my voice according to thy loving kindness: O Lord, quicken me according to thy judgment. 

###### 150 
They draw near that follow after malice, _and_ are far from thy Law. 

###### 151 
Thou art near, O Lord: for all thy commandments are true. 

###### 152 
I have known long since by thy testimonies, that thou hast established them forever. 

###### 153 
Behold mine affliction, and deliver me: for I have not forgotten thy law. 

###### 154 
Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according unto thy word. 

###### 155 
Salvation _is_ far from the wicked, because they seek not thy statutes. 

###### 156 
Great art thy tender mercies, O Lord: quicken me according to thy judgments. 

###### 157 
My persecutors and mine oppressors _are_ many: _yet_ do I not swerve from thy testimonies. 

###### 158 
I saw the transgressors and was grieved, because they kept not thy word. 

###### 159 
Consider, O Lord, how I love thy precepts: quicken me according to thy loving kindness. 

###### 160 
The beginning of thy word is truth, and all the judgments of thy righteousness _endure_ forever. 

###### 161 
Princes have persecuted me without cause: but mine heart stood in awe of thy words. 

###### 162 
I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth a great spoil. 

###### 163 
I hate falsehood and abhor it, _but_ thy Law do I love. 

###### 164 
Seven times a day do I praise thee, because of thy righteous judgments. 

###### 165 
They that love thy law, shall have great prosperity, and they shall have none hurt. 

###### 166 
Lord, I have trusted in thy salvation, and have done thy commandments. 

###### 167 
My soul hath kept thy testimonies: for I love them exceedingly. 

###### 168 
I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee. 

###### 169 
Let my complaint come before thee, O Lord, _and_ give me understanding according unto thy word. 

###### 170 
Let my supplication come before thee, _and_ deliver me according to thy promise. 

###### 171 
My lips shall speak praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes. 

###### 172 
My tongue shall entreat of thy word: for all thy commandments _are_ righteous. 

###### 173 
Let thine hand help me: for I have chosen thy precepts. 

###### 174 
I have longed for thy salvation, O Lord, and thy Law _is_ my delight. 

###### 175 
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee, and thy judgments shall help me. 

###### 176 
I have gone astray like a lost sheep: seek thy servant, for I do not forget thy commandments.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 118|← 19 - Psalms 118]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 120|19 - Psalms 120 →]])
