# 19 - Psalms 107

(previous:: [[Ps 106|← 19 - Psalms 106]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 108|19 - Psalms 108 →]])

***


###### 1 
Praise the Lord, because he is good: for his mercy _endureth_ forever. 

###### 2 
Let them, which have been redeemed of the Lord, show how he hath delivered them from the hand of the oppressor, 

###### 3 
And gathered them out of the lands, from the East and from the West, from the North and from the South. 

###### 4 
_When_ they wandered in the desert _and_ wilderness out of the way, _and_ found no city to dwell in, 

###### 5 
Both hungry _and_ thirsty, their soul fainted in them. 

###### 6 
Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, _and_ he delivered them from their distress, 

###### 7 
And led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation. 

###### 8 
Let them _therefore_ confess before the Lord his loving kindness, and his wonderful works before the sons of men. 

###### 9 
For he satisfied the thirsty soul, and filled the hungry soul with goodness. 

###### 10 
They that dwell in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in misery and iron, 

###### 11 
Because they rebelled against the words of the Lord, and despised the counsel of the most High, 

###### 12 
When he humbled their heart with heaviness, _then_ they fell down, and there was no helper. 

###### 13 
Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, _and_ he delivered them from their distress. 

###### 14 
He brought them out of darkness, and _out of_ the shadow of death, and brake their bands asunder. 

###### 15 
Let them _therefore_ confess before the Lord his loving-kindness, and his wonderful works before the sons of men. 

###### 16 
For he hath broken the gates of brass, and burst the bars of iron asunder, 

###### 17 
Fools by reason of their transgression, and because of their iniquities are afflicted. 

###### 18 
Their soul abhorreth all meat, and they are brought to death's door. 

###### 19 
Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, _and_ he delivereth them from their distress. 

###### 20 
He sendeth his word and healeth them, and delivereth them from their graves. 

###### 21 
Let them _therefore_ confess before the Lord his loving kindness, and his wonderful works before the sons of men, 

###### 22 
And let them offer sacrifices of praise, and declare his works with rejoicing. 

###### 23 
They that go down to the sea in ships, _and_ occupy by the great waters, 

###### 24 
They see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep. 

###### 25 
For he commandeth and raiseth the stormy wind, and it lifteth up the waves thereof. 

###### 26 
They mount up to the heaven, _and_ descend to the deep, so that their soul melteth for trouble. 

###### 27 
They are tossed to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and all their cunning is gone. 

###### 28 
Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, _and_ he bringeth them out of their distress. 

###### 29 
He turneth the storm to calm, so that the waves thereof are still. 

###### 30 
When they are quieted, they are glad, and he bringeth them unto the haven, where they would be. 

###### 31 
Let them _therefore_ confess before the Lord his loving kindness, and his wonderful works before the sons of men. 

###### 32 
And let them exalt him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the Elders. 

###### 33 
He turneth the floods to a wilderness, and the springs of waters into dryness, 

###### 34 
_And_ a fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. 

###### 35 
_Again_ he turneth the wilderness into pools of water, and the dry land into water springs. 

###### 36 
And there he placeth the hungry, and they build a city to dwell in, 

###### 37 
And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which bring forth fruitful increase. 

###### 38 
For he blesseth them, and they multiply exceedingly, and he diminisheth not their cattle. 

###### 39 
Again _men_ are diminished, and brought low by oppression, evil and sorrow. 

###### 40 
He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to err in desert places out of the way. 

###### 41 
Yet he raiseth up the poor out of misery, and maketh him families like a flock of sheep. 

###### 42 
The righteous shall see it, and rejoice, and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. 

###### 43 
Who is wise that he may observe these things? for they shall understand the loving kindness of the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 106|← 19 - Psalms 106]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 108|19 - Psalms 108 →]])
