# 19 - Psalms 21

(previous:: [[Ps 20|← 19 - Psalms 20]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 22|19 - Psalms 22 →]])

***


###### 1 
The King shall rejoice in thy strength, O Lord: yea how greatly shall he rejoice in thy salvation? 

###### 2 
Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not denied _him_ the request of his lips. Selah. 

###### 3 
For thou didst prevent him with liberal blessings, _and_ didst set a crown of pure gold upon his head. 

###### 4 
He asked life of thee, _and_ thou gavest him a long life forever and ever. 

###### 5 
His glory _is_ great in thy salvation: dignity and honor hast thou laid upon him. 

###### 6 
For thou hast set him _as_ blessings forever: thou hast made him glad with the joy of thy countenance. 

###### 7 
Because the king trusteth in the Lord, and in the mercy of the most high, he shall not slide. 

###### 8 
Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies, _and_ thy right hand shall find out them that hate thee. 

###### 9 
Thou shalt make them like a fiery oven in time of thine anger: the Lord shall destroy them in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them. 

###### 10 
Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from the children of men. 

###### 11 
For they intended evil against thee, _and_ imagined mischief, _but_ they shall not prevail. 

###### 12 
Therefore shalt thou put them apart, _and_ the strings of thy bow shalt thou make ready against their faces. 

###### 13 
Be thou exalted, O Lord, in thy strength: _so_ will we sing and praise thy power.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 20|← 19 - Psalms 20]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 22|19 - Psalms 22 →]])
