# 19 - Psalms 22

(previous:: [[Ps 21|← 19 - Psalms 21]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 23|19 - Psalms 23 →]])

***


###### 1 
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, _and_ art so far from mine health, _and from_ the words of my roaring? 

###### 2 
O my God, I cry by day, but thou hearest not: and by night, but have no audience. 

###### 3 
But thou art holy, and dost inhabit the praises of Israel. 

###### 4 
Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them. 

###### 5 
They called upon thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded. 

###### 6 
But I am a worm, and not a man: a shame of men, and the contempt of the people. 

###### 7 
All they that see me, have me in derision: they make a mow _and_ nod the head, _saying_, 

###### 8 
He trusted in the Lord, let him deliver him: let him save him, seeing he loveth him. 

###### 9 
But thou didst draw me out of the womb: thou gavest me hope, _even_ at my mother's breasts. 

###### 10 
I was cast upon thee, _even_ from the womb: thou art my God from my mother's belly. 

###### 11 
Be not far from me, because trouble is near: for _there is_ none to help _me_. 

###### 12 
Many young bulls have compassed me: mighty bulls of Bashan have closed me about. 

###### 13 
They gape upon me with their mouths, _as_ a ramping and roaring lion. 

###### 14 
I am like water poured out, and all my bones are out of joint: mine heart is like wax: it is molten in the midst of my bowels. 

###### 15 
My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. 

###### 16 
For dogs have compassed me, _and_ the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me: they pierced mine hands and my feet. 

###### 17 
I may tell all my bones, _yet_ they behold, _and_ look upon me. 

###### 18 
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture. 

###### 19 
But be not thou far off, O Lord, my strength: hasten to help me. 

###### 20 
Deliver my soul from the sword: my desolate _soul_ from the power of the dog. 

###### 21 
Save me from the lion's mouth, and answer me _in saving me_ from the horns of the unicorns. 

###### 22 
I will declare thy Name unto my brethren: in the midst of the Congregation will I praise thee, _saying_, 

###### 23 
Praise the Lord, ye that fear him: magnify ye him, all the seed of Jacob, and fear ye him all the seed of Israel. 

###### 24 
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the poor: neither hath he hid his face from him, but when he called unto him, he heard. 

###### 25 
My praise _shall be_ of thee in the great Congregation: my vows will I perform before them that fear him. 

###### 26 
The poor shall eat and be satisfied: they that seek after the Lord, shall praise him: your heart shall live forever. 

###### 27 
All the ends of the world shall remember _themselves_ and turn to the Lord, and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. 

###### 28 
For the kingdom _is_ the Lord's, and he ruleth among the nations. 

###### 29 
All they that be fat in the earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down into the dust, shall bow before him, even he that cannot quicken his own soul. 

###### 30 
_Their_ seed shall serve him: it shall be counted unto the Lord for a generation. 

###### 31 
They shall come and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, because he hath done it.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 21|← 19 - Psalms 21]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 23|19 - Psalms 23 →]])
