# 19 - Psalms 25

(previous:: [[Ps 24|← 19 - Psalms 24]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 26|19 - Psalms 26 →]])

***


###### 1 
Unto thee, O Lord, lift I up my soul. 

###### 2 
My God, I trust in thee; let me not be confounded: let not mine enemies rejoice over me. 

###### 3 
So all that hope in thee, shall not be ashamed; _but_ let them be confounded, that transgress without cause. 

###### 4 
Show me thy ways, O Lord, _and_ teach me thy paths. 

###### 5 
Lead me forth in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my salvation: in thee do I trust all the day. 

###### 6 
Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy lovingkindness: for they have been forever. 

###### 7 
Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my rebellions, _but_ according to thy kindness remember thou me, _even_ for thy goodness sake, O Lord. 

###### 8 
Gracious and righteous _is_ the Lord: therefore will he teach sinners in the way. 

###### 9 
Them that be meek, will he guide in judgment, and teach the humble his way. 

###### 10 
All the paths of the Lord _are_ mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies: 

###### 11 
For thy Name's sake, O Lord, be merciful unto mine iniquity, for it is great. 

###### 12 
What man is he that feareth the Lord? him will he teach the way _that_ he shall choose. 

###### 13 
His soul shall dwell at ease, and his seed shall inherit the land. 

###### 14 
The secret of the Lord _is revealed_ to them that fear him: and his Covenant to give them understanding. 

###### 15 
Mine eyes _are_ ever toward the Lord: for he will bring my feet out of the net. 

###### 16 
Turn thy face unto me, and have mercy upon me: for I am desolate and poor. 

###### 17 
The sorrows of mine heart are enlarged: draw me out of my troubles. 

###### 18 
Look upon mine affliction and my travail, and forgive all my sins. 

###### 19 
Behold mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate me with cruel hatred. 

###### 20 
Keep my soul and deliver me: let me not be confounded: for I trust in thee. 

###### 21 
Let _mine_ uprightness and equity preserve me; for mine hope is in thee. 

###### 22 
Deliver Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 24|← 19 - Psalms 24]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 26|19 - Psalms 26 →]])
