# 19 - Psalms 27

(previous:: [[Ps 26|← 19 - Psalms 26]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 28|19 - Psalms 28 →]])

***


###### 1 
The Lord _is_ my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? the Lord _is_ the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? 

###### 2 
When the wicked, _even_ mine enemies and my foes came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. 

###### 3 
Though an host pitched against me, mine heart should not be afraid: though war be raised against me, I will trust in this. 

###### 4 
One thing have I desired of the Lord, that I will require, _even_ that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to visit his Temple. 

###### 5 
For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his Tabernacle: in the secret _place_ of his pavilion shall he hide me, _and_ set me up upon a rock. 

###### 6 
And now shall he lift up mine head above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his Tabernacle sacrifices of joy: I will sing and praise the Lord. 

###### 7 
Hearken unto my voice, O Lord, _when_ I cry: have mercy also upon me and hear me. 

###### 8 
_When thou saidest_, Seek ye my face, mine heart answered unto thee, O Lord, I will seek thy face. 

###### 9 
Hide not _therefore_ thy face from me, nor cast thy servant away in displeasure: thou hast been my succor, leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. 

###### 10 
Though my father and my mother should forsake me, yet the Lord will gather me up. 

###### 11 
Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a right path, because of mine enemies. 

###### 12 
Give me not unto the lust of mine adversaries: for there are false witnesses risen up against me, and such as speak cruelly. 

###### 13 
_I should have fainted_, except I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. 

###### 14 
Hope in the Lord: be strong, and he shall comfort thine heart, and trust in the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 26|← 19 - Psalms 26]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 28|19 - Psalms 28 →]])
