# 19 - Psalms 39

(previous:: [[Ps 38|← 19 - Psalms 38]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 40|19 - Psalms 40 →]])

***


###### 1 
I thought, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth bridled, while the wicked is in my sight. 

###### 2 
I was dumb and spake nothing: I kept silence _even_ from good, and my sorrow was more stirred. 

###### 3 
Mine heart was hot within me, _and_ while I was musing, the fire kindled, _and_ I spake with my tongue, _saying_, 

###### 4 
Lord, let me know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is: let me know how long I have to live. 

###### 5 
Behold, thou hast made my days as an hand breadth, and mine age as nothing in respect of thee: surely every man _in his best_ state is altogether vanity. Selah. 

###### 6 
Doubtless man walketh in a shadow, and disquieteth himself in vain: he heapeth up _riches_, and cannot tell who shall gather them. 

###### 7 
And now Lord, what wait I for? mine hope is even in thee. 

###### 8 
Deliver me from all my transgressions, and make me not a rebuke unto the foolish. 

###### 9 
I should have been dumb, and not have opened my mouth, because thou didst it. 

###### 10 
Take thy plague away from me: for I am consumed by the stroke of thine hand. 

###### 11 
When thou with rebukes dost chastise man for iniquity, thou as a moth makest his beauty to consume: surely every man _is_ vanity. Selah. 

###### 12 
Hear my prayer, O Lord, and hearken unto my cry: keep not silence at my tears, for I am a stranger with thee, _and_ a sojourner as all my fathers. 

###### 13 
Stay _thine anger_ from me, that I may recover my strength, before I go hence and be not.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 38|← 19 - Psalms 38]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 40|19 - Psalms 40 →]])
