# 19 - Psalms 33

(previous:: [[Ps 32|← 19 - Psalms 32]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 34|19 - Psalms 34 →]])

***


###### 1 
Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous: _for_ it becometh upright men to be thankful. 

###### 2 
Praise the Lord with harp: sing unto him with viol _and_ instrument of ten strings. 

###### 3 
Sing unto him a new song: sing cheerfully with a loud voice. 

###### 4 
For the word of the Lord _is_ righteous, and all his works _are_ faithful. 

###### 5 
He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. 

###### 6 
By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. 

###### 7 
He gathereth the waters of the sea together as upon an heap, and layeth up the depths in _his_ treasures. 

###### 8 
Let all the earth fear the Lord: let all them that dwell in the world, fear him. 

###### 9 
For he spake, and it was done: he commanded, and it stood. 

###### 10 
The Lord breaketh the counsel of the heathen, _and_ bringeth to nought the devices of the people. 

###### 11 
The counsel of the Lord shall stand forever, _and_ the thoughts of his heart throughout all ages. 

###### 12 
Blessed _is_ that nation, whose God is the Lord: _even_ the people _that_ he hath chosen for his inheritance. 

###### 13 
The Lord looketh down from heaven, _and_ beholdeth all the children of men. 

###### 14 
From the habitation of his dwelling, he beholdeth all them that dwell in the earth. 

###### 15 
He fashioneth their hearts every one, _and_ understandeth all their works. 

###### 16 
The King is not saved by the multitude of an host, _neither_ is the mighty man delivered by great strength. 

###### 17 
A horse is a vain help, and shall not deliver _any_ by his great strength. 

###### 18 
Behold, the eye of the Lord _is_ upon them that fear him, _and_ upon them that trust in his mercy, 

###### 19 
To deliver their souls from death, and to preserve them in famine. 

###### 20 
Our soul waiteth for the Lord: _for_ he is our help and our shield. 

###### 21 
Surely our heart shall rejoice in him, because we trusted in his holy Name. 

###### 22 
Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us, as we trusted in thee.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 32|← 19 - Psalms 32]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 34|19 - Psalms 34 →]])
