# 19 - Psalms 35

(previous:: [[Ps 34|← 19 - Psalms 34]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 36|19 - Psalms 36 →]])

***


###### 1 
Plead thou my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me: fight thou against them that fight against me. 

###### 2 
Lay hand upon the shield and buckler, and stand up for my help. 

###### 3 
Bring out also the spear, and stop _the way_ against them that persecute me, say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. 

###### 4 
Let them be confounded and put to shame, that seek after my soul: let them be turned back, and brought to confusion, that imagine mine hurt. 

###### 5 
Let them be as chaff before the wind, and let the Angel of the Lord scatter _them_. 

###### 6 
Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the Angel of the Lord persecute them. 

###### 7 
For without cause they have hid the pit _and_ their net for me: without cause have they dug _a pit_ for my soul. 

###### 8 
Let destruction come upon him at unawares, and let his net, that he hath laid privily, take him: let him fall into the same destruction. 

###### 9 
Then my soul shall be joyful in the Lord: it shall rejoice in his salvation. 

###### 10 
All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him, that is too strong for him! yea, the poor and him that is in misery, from him that spoileth him! 

###### 11 
Cruel witnesses did rise up: they asked of me things that I knew not. 

###### 12 
They rewarded me evil for good, to have spoiled my soul. 

###### 13 
Yet I, when they were sick, I was clothed with a sack: I humbled my soul with fasting: and my prayer was turned upon my bosom. 

###### 14 
I behaved myself as to _my_ friend, _or_ as to my brother: I humbled myself, mourning as one that bewaileth his mother. 

###### 15 
But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: the abjects assembled themselves against me, and I knew not: they tare me, and ceased not, 

###### 16 
With the false scoffers at banquets, gnashing their teeth against me. 

###### 17 
Lord, how long wilt thou behold _this_? deliver my soul from their tumult, _even_ my desolate _soul_ from the lions. 

###### 18 
_So_ will I give thee thanks in a great Congregation: I will praise thee among much people. 

###### 19 
Let not them that are mine enemies unjustly rejoice over me, neither let them wink with the eye, that hate me without a cause. 

###### 20 
For they speak not as friends: but they imagine deceitful words against the quiet of the land. 

###### 21 
And they gaped on me with their mouths, saying, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen. 

###### 22 
Thou hast seen it, O Lord: keep not silence: be not far from me, O Lord. 

###### 23 
Arise and wake to my judgment, _even_ to my cause, my God, and my Lord. 

###### 24 
Judge me, O Lord my God, according to thy righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me. 

###### 25 
Let them not say in their hearts, O our soul rejoice: neither let them say, We have devoured him. 

###### 26 
Let them be confounded, and put to shame together, that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with confusion and shame, that lift up themselves against me. 

###### 27 
_But_ let them be joyful and glad, that love my righteousness: yea, let them say always, Let the Lord be magnified, which loveth the prosperity of his servant. 

###### 28 
And my tongue shall utter thy righteousness, _and_ thy praise every day.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 34|← 19 - Psalms 34]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 36|19 - Psalms 36 →]])
