# 19 - Psalms 38

(previous:: [[Ps 37|← 19 - Psalms 37]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 39|19 - Psalms 39 →]])

***


###### 1 
O Lord, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chastise me in thy wrath. 

###### 2 
For thine arrows have light upon me, and thine hand lieth upon me. 

###### 3 
There _is_ nothing sound in my flesh, because of thine anger: neither _is_ there rest in my bones, because of my sin. 

###### 4 
For mine iniquities are gone over mine head, _and_ as a weighty burden they are too heavy for me. 

###### 5 
My wounds are putrefied, and corrupt because of my foolishness. 

###### 6 
I am bowed, _and_ crooked very sore: I go mourning all the day. 

###### 7 
For my reins are full of burning, and there _is_ nothing sound in my flesh. 

###### 8 
I am weakened and sore broken: I roar for the very grief of mine heart. 

###### 9 
Lord, _I pour_ my whole desire before thee, and my sighing is not hid from thee. 

###### 10 
Mine heart panteth: my strength faileth me, and the light of mine eyes, even they are not mine own. 

###### 11 
My lovers and my friends stand aside from my plague, and my kinsmen stand afar off. 

###### 12 
They also that seek after my life, lay snares, and they that go about to do me evil, talk wicked things and imagine deceit continually. 

###### 13 
But I as a deaf man heard not, and _am_ as a dumb man, _which_ openeth not his mouth. 

###### 14 
Thus am I as a man, that heareth not, and in whose mouth _are_ no reproofs. 

###### 15 
For on thee, O Lord, do I wait: thou wilt hear _me_, my Lord, my God. 

###### 16 
For I said, _Hear me_, lest they rejoice over me: _for_ when my foot slippeth, they extol themselves against me. 

###### 17 
Surely I am ready to halt, and my sorrow _is_ ever before me. 

###### 18 
When I declare my pain, _and_ am sorry for my sin, 

###### 19 
Then mine enemies are alive, _and_ are mighty, and they that hate me wrongfully are many. 

###### 20 
They also, that reward evil for good, are mine adversaries, because I follow goodness. 

###### 21 
Forsake me not, O Lord, be not thou far from me, my God. 

###### 22 
Haste thee, to help me, O my Lord, my salvation.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 37|← 19 - Psalms 37]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 39|19 - Psalms 39 →]])
