# 19 - Psalms 31

(previous:: [[Ps 30|← 19 - Psalms 30]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 32|19 - Psalms 32 →]])

***


###### 1 
In thee, O Lord, have I put my trust: let me never be confounded: deliver me in thy righteousness. 

###### 2 
Bow down thine ear to me: make haste to deliver me: be unto me a strong rock, _and_ an house of defense to save me. 

###### 3 
For thou art my rock and my fortress: therefore for thy Name's sake direct me and guide me. 

###### 4 
Draw me out of the net, that they have laid privily for me: for thou art my strength. 

###### 5 
Into thine hand I commend my spirit: _for_ thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth. 

###### 6 
I have hated them that give themselves to deceitful vanities: for I trust in the Lord. 

###### 7 
I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast seen my trouble: thou hast known my soul in adversities, 

###### 8 
And thou hast not shut me up in the hand of the enemy, _but_ hast set my feet at large. 

###### 9 
Have mercy upon me, O Lord: for I am in trouble: mine eye, my soul and my belly are consumed with grief. 

###### 10 
For my life is wasted with heaviness, and my years with mourning: my strength faileth for my pain, and my bones are consumed. 

###### 11 
I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but specially among my neighbors: and a fear to mine acquaintance, who seeing me in the street, fled from me. 

###### 12 
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel. 

###### 13 
For I have heard the railing of great men: fear _was_ on every side, while they conspired together against me, _and_ consulted to take my life. 

###### 14 
But I trusted in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God. 

###### 15 
My times are in thine hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me. 

###### 16 
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: _and_ save me through thy mercy. 

###### 17 
Let me not be confounded, O Lord: for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be put to confusion, _and_ to silence in the grave. 

###### 18 
Let the lying lips be made dumb, which cruelly, proudly, and spitefully speak against the righteous. 

###### 19 
How great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee! _and_ done to them that trust in thee, _even_ before the sons of men! 

###### 20 
Thou dost hide them privily in thy presence from the pride of men: thou keepest them secretly in thy Tabernacle from the strife of tongues. 

###### 21 
Blessed _be_ the Lord: for he hath showed his marvelous kindness toward me in a strong city. 

###### 22 
Though I said in mine haste, I am cast out of thy sight, yet thou heardest the voice of my prayer, when I cried unto thee. 

###### 23 
Love ye the Lord all his Saints: _for_ the Lord preserveth the faithful, and rewardeth abundantly the proud doer. 

###### 24 
All ye that trust in the Lord, be strong, and he shall establish your heart.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 30|← 19 - Psalms 30]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 32|19 - Psalms 32 →]])
