# 19 - Psalms 32

(previous:: [[Ps 31|← 19 - Psalms 31]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 33|19 - Psalms 33 →]])

***


###### 1 
Blessed _is he_ whose wickedness is forgiven, _and_ whose sin is covered. 

###### 2 
Blessed _is_ the man, unto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit _there is_ no guile. 

###### 3 
When I held my tongue, my bones consumed, _or_ when I roared all the day, 

###### 4 
(For thine hand is heavy upon me day and night: _and_ my moisture is turned into the drought of Summer. Selah.) 

###### 5 
_Then_ I acknowledged my sin unto thee, neither hid I mine iniquity: _for_ I thought, I will confess against myself my wickedness unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the punishment of my sin. Selah. 

###### 6 
Therefore shall everyone that is godly, make his prayer unto thee in a time, when thou mayest be found: surely in the flood of great waters they shall not come near him. 

###### 7 
Thou art my secret place: thou preservest me from trouble: thou compassest me about with joyful deliverance. Selah. 

###### 8 
I will instruct thee, and teach thee in the way that thou shalt go, _and_ I will guide thee with mine eye. 

###### 9 
Be ye not like an horse, _or_ like a mule _which_ understand not: whose mouths thou dost bind with bit and bridle, lest they come near thee. 

###### 10 
Many sorrows _shall come_ to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the Lord, mercy shall compass him. 

###### 11 
Be glad ye righteous, and rejoice in the Lord, and be joyful all ye, that are upright in heart.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 31|← 19 - Psalms 31]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 33|19 - Psalms 33 →]])
