# 19 - Psalms 36

(previous:: [[Ps 35|← 19 - Psalms 35]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 37|19 - Psalms 37 →]])

***


###### 1 
Wickedness saith to the wicked man, even in mine heart, _that there is_ no fear of God before his eyes. 

###### 2 
For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, while his iniquity is found _worthy_ to be hated. 

###### 3 
The words of his mouth _are_ iniquity and deceit: he hath left off to understand _and_ to do good. 

###### 4 
He imagineth mischief upon his bed: he setteth himself upon a way_, that is_ not good, _and_ doth not abhor evil. 

###### 5 
Thy mercy, O Lord, _reacheth_ unto the heavens, _and_ thy faithfulness unto the clouds. 

###### 6 
Thy righteousness _is_ like the mighty mountains: thy judgments _are like_ a great deep: thou Lord, dost save man and beast. 

###### 7 
How excellent is thy mercy, O God! therefore the children of men trust under the shadow of thy wings. 

###### 8 
They shall be satisfied with the fatness of thine house, and thou shalt give them drink out of the river of thy pleasures. 

###### 9 
For with thee _is_ the well of life, and in thy light shall we see light. 

###### 10 
Extend thy loving-kindness unto them that know thee, and thy righteousness unto them that are upright in heart. 

###### 11 
Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked men move me. 

###### 12 
There they are fallen that work iniquity: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 35|← 19 - Psalms 35]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 37|19 - Psalms 37 →]])
