# 19 - Psalms 37

(previous:: [[Ps 36|← 19 - Psalms 36]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 38|19 - Psalms 38 →]])

***


###### 1 
Fret not thyself because of the wicked men, neither be envious for the evildoers. 

###### 2 
For they shall soon be cut down like grass, and shall wither as the green herb. 

###### 3 
Trust thou in the Lord and do good: dwell in the land, and thou shalt be fed assuredly: 

###### 4 
And delight thyself in the Lord, and he shall give thee thine heart's desire. 

###### 5 
Commit thy way unto the Lord, and trust in him, and he shall bring it to pass. 

###### 6 
And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noon day. 

###### 7 
Wait patiently upon the Lord, and hope in him: fret not thyself for him which prospereth in his way, _nor_ for the man that bringeth _his_ enterprises to pass. 

###### 8 
Cease from anger, and leave off wrath: fret not thyself also to do evil. 

###### 9 
For evildoers shall be cut off, and they that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the land. 

###### 10 
Therefore yet a little while and the wicked shall not _appear_, and thou shalt look after his place, and he shall not _be found_. 

###### 11 
But meek men shall possess the earth, and shall have their delight in the multitude of peace. 

###### 12 
The wicked practiceth against the just, and gnasheth his teeth against him. 

###### 13 
_But_ the Lord shall laugh him to scorn: for he seeth that his day is coming. 

###### 14 
The wicked have drawn _their_ sword and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, _and_ to slay such as be of upright conversation. 

###### 15 
_But_ their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. 

###### 16 
A small thing unto the just man is better than great riches to the wicked _and_ mighty. 

###### 17 
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the Lord upholdeth the just men. 

###### 18 
The Lord knoweth the days of upright men, and their inheritance shall be perpetual. 

###### 19 
They shall not be confounded in the perilous time, and in the days of famine they shall have enough. 

###### 20 
But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be consumed as the fat of lambs: _even_ with the smoke shall they consume away. 

###### 21 
The wicked borroweth and payeth not again: but the righteous is merciful and giveth. 

###### 22 
For such as be blessed _of God_ shall inherit the land, and they that be cursed of him, shall be cut off. 

###### 23 
The paths of man are directed by the Lord: for he loveth his way. 

###### 24 
Though he fall, he shall not be cast off, for the Lord putteth under his hand. 

###### 25 
I have been young, and am old: yet I saw never the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. 

###### 26 
_But_ he is ever merciful and lendeth, and his seed _enjoyeth_ the blessing. 

###### 27 
Flee from evil and do good, and dwell forever. 

###### 28 
For the Lord loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his Saints: they shall be preserved forevermore: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. 

###### 29 
The righteous men shall inherit the land, and dwell therein forever. 

###### 30 
The mouth of the righteous will speak of wisdom, and his tongue will talk of judgment. 

###### 31 
_For_ the Law of his God _is_ in his heart, _and_ his steps shall not slide. 

###### 32 
The wicked watched the righteous, and seeketh to slay him. 

###### 33 
_But_ the Lord will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him, when he is judged. 

###### 34 
Wait thou on the Lord, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee, that thou shalt inherit the land: when the wicked men shall perish, thou shalt see. 

###### 35 
I have seen the wicked strong, and spreading himself like a green bay tree. 

###### 36 
Yet he passed away, and lo, he was gone, and I sought him, but he could not be found. 

###### 37 
Mark the upright man, and behold the just: for the end of _that_ man _is_ peace. 

###### 38 
But their transgressors shall be destroyed together, _and_ the end of the wicked shall be cut off. 

###### 39 
But the salvation of the righteous men _shall be_ of the Lord: he _shall be_ their strength in the time of trouble. 

###### 40 
For the Lord shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and shall save them, because they trust in him.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 36|← 19 - Psalms 36]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 38|19 - Psalms 38 →]])
