# 19 - Psalms 34

(previous:: [[Ps 33|← 19 - Psalms 33]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 35|19 - Psalms 35 →]])

***


###### 1 
I will always give thanks unto the Lord: his praise _shall be_ in my mouth continually. 

###### 2 
My soul shall glory in the Lord: the humble shall hear it and be glad. 

###### 3 
Praise ye the Lord with me, and let us magnify his Name together. 

###### 4 
I sought the Lord, and he heard me: yea, he delivered me out of all my fear. 

###### 5 
They shall look unto him, and run _to him_: and their faces shall not be ashamed, _saying_, 

###### 6 
This poor man cried, and the Lord heard _him_, and saved him out of all his troubles. 

###### 7 
The Angel of the Lord pitched round about them, that fear him, and delivereth them. 

###### 8 
Taste ye and see, how gracious the Lord is: blessed _is_ the man that trusteth in him. 

###### 9 
Fear the Lord ye his Saints: for nothing wanteth to them that fear him. 

###### 10 
The lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they which seek the Lord, shall want nothing that is good. 

###### 11 
Come children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the Lord. 

###### 12 
What man is he that desireth life, and loveth _long_ days for to see good? 

###### 13 
Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips, that they speak no guile. 

###### 14 
Eschew evil and do good: seek peace and follow after it. 

###### 15 
The eyes of the Lord _are_ upon the righteous, and his ears _are open_ unto their cry. 

###### 16 
_But_ the face of the Lord _is_ against them that do evil, to cut off their remembrance from the earth. 

###### 17 
_The righteous_ cry, and the Lord heareth _them_, and delivereth them out of all their troubles. 

###### 18 
The Lord is near unto them that are of a contrite heart, and will save such as be afflicted in spirit. 

###### 19 
Great _are_ the troubles of the righteous: but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. 

###### 20 
He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken. 

###### 21 
_But_ malice shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous, shall perish. 

###### 22 
The Lord redeemeth the souls of his servants: and none that trust in him, shall perish.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 33|← 19 - Psalms 33]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 35|19 - Psalms 35 →]])
