# 19 - Psalms 42

(previous:: [[Ps 41|← 19 - Psalms 41]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 43|19 - Psalms 43 →]])

***


###### 1 
As the Hart brayeth for the rivers of water, so panted my soul after thee, O God. 

###### 2 
My soul thirsteth for God, _even_ for the living God: when shall I come and appear _before_ the presence of God? 

###### 3 
Mine tears have been my meat day and night, while they daily say unto me, Where is thy God? 

###### 4 
When I remembered these things, I poured out my very heart, because I had gone with the multitude, _and_ led them into the house of God with the voice of singing, _and_ praise, _as_ a multitude that keepeth a feast. 

###### 5 
Why art thou cast down, my soul, and unquiet within me? wait on God: for I will yet give him thanks for the help of his presence. 

###### 6 
My God, my soul is cast down within me, because I remembered thee, from the land of Jordan, and Hermon, _and_ from the mount Mizar. 

###### 7 
_One_ deep calleth _another_ deep by the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy floods are gone over me. 

###### 8 
The Lord will grant his loving-kindness in the day, and in the night shall I sing of him, _even_ a prayer unto the God of my life. 

###### 9 
I will say unto God, _which is_ my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning, when the enemy oppresseth _me_? 

###### 10 
My bones are cut asunder, while mine enemies reproach me, saying daily unto me, Where is thy God? 

###### 11 
Why art thou cast down, my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? wait on God: for I will yet give him thanks: _he is_ my present help and my God.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 41|← 19 - Psalms 41]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 43|19 - Psalms 43 →]])
