# 19 - Psalms 40

(previous:: [[Ps 39|← 19 - Psalms 39]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 41|19 - Psalms 41 →]])

***


###### 1 
I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. 

###### 2 
He brought me also out of the horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon the rock, and ordered my goings. 

###### 3 
And he hath put in my mouth a new song of praise unto our God: many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. 

###### 4 
Blessed _is_ the man that maketh the Lord his trust, and regardeth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. 

###### 5 
O Lord my God, thou hast made thy wonderful works _so_ many, that none can count in order to thee thy thoughts toward us: I would declare and speak_ of them, but_ they are more than I am able to express. 

###### 6 
Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire: (_for_ mine ears hast thou prepared) burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. 

###### 7 
Then said I, Lo, I come: _for_ in the roll of the book it _is_ written of me. 

###### 8 
I desired to do thy good will, O my God: yea, thy Law is within mine heart. 

###### 9 
I have declared _thy_ righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I will not refrain my lips: O Lord, thou knowest. 

###### 10 
I have not hid thy righteousness within mine heart, _but_ I have declared thy truth and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy mercy, and thy truth from the great Congregation. 

###### 11 
Withdraw not thou thy tender mercy from me, O Lord, let thy mercy and thy truth always preserve me. 

###### 12 
For innumerable troubles have compassed me: my sins have taken such hold upon me, that I am not able to look up: _yea_, they are more in number than the hairs of mine head: therefore mine heart hath failed me. 

###### 13 
Let it please thee, O Lord, to deliver me: make haste, O Lord, to help me. 

###### 14 
Let them be confounded and put to shame together, that seek my soul to destroy it: let them be driven backward and put to rebuke that desire mine hurt. 

###### 15 
Let them be destroyed for a reward of their shame, which say unto me, Aha, aha. 

###### 16 
Let all them that seek thee, rejoice and be glad in thee, and let them that love thy salvation, say always, The Lord be praised. 

###### 17 
Though I be poor and needy, the Lord thinketh on me: thou art mine helper and my deliverer: my God, make no tarrying.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 39|← 19 - Psalms 39]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 41|19 - Psalms 41 →]])
