# 19 - Psalms 44

(previous:: [[Ps 43|← 19 - Psalms 43]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 45|19 - Psalms 45 →]])

***


###### 1 
We have heard with our ears, O God: our fathers have told us the works _that_ thou hast done in their days, in the old time: 

###### 2 
_How_ thou hast driven out the heathen with thine hand, and planted them: _how_ thou hast destroyed the people, and caused them to grow. 

###### 3 
For they inherited not the land by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou didst favor them. 

###### 4 
Thou art my king, O God: send help unto Jacob. 

###### 5 
Through thee have we thrust back our adversaries: by thy Name have we trodden down them that rose up against us. 

###### 6 
For I do not trust in my bow, neither can my sword save me. 

###### 7 
But thou hast saved us from our adversaries, and hast put them to confusion that hate us. 

###### 8 
_Therefore_ will we praise God continually, and will confess thy Name forever. Selah. 

###### 9 
But _now_ thou art far off, and puttest us to confusion, and goest not forth with our armies. 

###### 10 
Thou makest us to turn back from the adversary, and they which hate us, spoil for themselves. 

###### 11 
Thou givest us as sheep to be eaten, and dost scatter us among the nations. 

###### 12 
Thou sellest thy people without gain, and dost not increase their price. 

###### 13 
Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbors, a jest and laughing stock to them that are round about us. 

###### 14 
Thou makest us a proverb among the nations, and a nodding of the head among the people. 

###### 15 
My confusion _is_ daily before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me, 

###### 16 
For the voice of the slanderer and rebuker, for the enemy and avenger. 

###### 17 
All this is come upon us, yet do we not forget thee, neither deal we falsely concerning thy covenant. 

###### 18 
Our heart is not turned back: neither our steps gone out of thy paths, 

###### 19 
Albeit thou hast smitten us down into the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death. 

###### 20 
If we have forgotten the Name of our God, and held up our hands to a strange god, 

###### 21 
Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart. 

###### 22 
Surely for thy sake are we slain continually, and are counted as sheep for the slaughter. 

###### 23 
Up, why sleepest thou, O Lord? awake, be not far off forever. 

###### 24 
Wherefore hidest thou thy face? and forgettest our misery and our affliction? 

###### 25 
For our soul is beaten down unto the dust: our belly cleaveth to the ground. 

###### 26 
Rise up for our succor, and redeem us for thy mercy's sake.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 43|← 19 - Psalms 43]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 45|19 - Psalms 45 →]])
