# 19 - Psalms 45

(previous:: [[Ps 44|← 19 - Psalms 44]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 46|19 - Psalms 46 →]])

***


###### 1 
Mine heart will utter forth a good matter: I will entreat _in_ my works of the king: my tongue _is as_ the pen of a swift writer. 

###### 2 
Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured in thy lips, because God hath blessed thee forever. 

###### 3 
Gird thy sword upon _thy_ thigh, O most mighty, _to wit_, thy worship and thy glory: 

###### 4 
And prosper with thy glory: ride upon the word of truth and of meekness _and_ of righteousness: so thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. 

###### 5 
Thine arrows _are_ sharp _to pierce_ the heart of the King's enemies: _therefore_ the people shall fall under thee. 

###### 6 
Thy throne, O God, _is_ forever and ever: the scepter of thy kingdom, _is_ a scepter of righteousness. 

###### 7 
Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness, because God, _even_ thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 

###### 8 
All thy garments _smell_ of myrrh and aloes, _and_ cassia, _when thou comest_ out of the ivory palaces where they have made thee glad. 

###### 9 
King's daughters _were_ among thine honorable _wives_: upon thy right hand did stand the Queen in a vesture of gold of Ophir. 

###### 10 
Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear: forget also thine own people and thy father's house. 

###### 11 
So shall the King have pleasure in thy beauty: for he is thy Lord, and reverence thou him. 

###### 12 
And the daughter of Tyre _with_ the rich of the people, shall do homage before thy face with presents. 

###### 13 
The King's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of broidered gold. 

###### 14 
She shall be brought unto the King in raiment of needlework: the virgins _that follow_ after her, _and_ her companions shall be brought unto thee. 

###### 15 
With joy and gladness shall they be brought, _and_ shall enter into the king's palace. 

###### 16 
Instead of thy fathers shall thy children be: thou shalt make them princes through all the earth. 

###### 17 
I will make thy Name to be remembered through all generations: therefore shall the people give thanks unto thee, world without end.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 44|← 19 - Psalms 44]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 46|19 - Psalms 46 →]])
