# 19 - Psalms 41

(previous:: [[Ps 40|← 19 - Psalms 40]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 42|19 - Psalms 42 →]])

***


###### 1 
Blessed _is_ he that judgeth wisely of the poor: the Lord shall deliver him in the time of trouble. 

###### 2 
The Lord will keep him and preserve him alive, he shall be blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. 

###### 3 
The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of sorrow: thou hast turned all his bed in his sickness. 

###### 4 
_Therefore_ I said, Lord have mercy upon me: heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. 

###### 5 
Mine enemies speak evil of me, _saying_, When shall he die, and his name perish? 

###### 6 
And if he come to see me, he speaketh lies, _but_ his heart heapeth iniquity within him, _and when_ he cometh forth, he telleth it. 

###### 7 
All they that hate me whisper together against me: _even_ against me do they imagine mine hurt. 

###### 8 
A mischief is light upon him, and he that lieth, shall no more rise. 

###### 9 
Yea, my familiar friend, whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up the heel against me. 

###### 10 
Therefore, O Lord, have mercy upon me, and raise me up: so shall I reward them. 

###### 11 
By this I know that thou favorest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph against me. 

###### 12 
And as for me thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and dost set me before thy face forever. 

###### 13 
Blessed _be_ the Lord God of Israel world without end. So be it, even so be it.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 40|← 19 - Psalms 40]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 42|19 - Psalms 42 →]])
