# 19 - Psalms 49

(previous:: [[Ps 48|← 19 - Psalms 48]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 50|19 - Psalms 50 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hear this all _ye_ people: give ear, all ye that dwell in the world, 

###### 2 
As well low as high, both rich and poor. 

###### 3 
My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of mine heart _is_ of knowledge. 

###### 4 
I will incline mine ear to a parable, _and_ utter my grave matter upon the harp. 

###### 5 
Wherefore should I fear in the evil days, _when_ iniquity shall compass me about, _as at_ mine heels? 

###### 6 
They trust in their goods, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches. 

###### 7 
Yet a man can by no means redeem _his_ brother: he cannot give his ransom to God, 

###### 8 
(So precious is the redemption of their souls, and the continuance forever) 

###### 9 
That he may live still forever, _and_ not see the grave. 

###### 10 
For he seeth that wise men die: _and_ also that the ignorant and foolish perish, and leave their riches for others. 

###### 11 
_Yet_ they think their houses _and_ their habitations _shall continue_ forever, _even_ from generation to generation, and call _their_ lands by their names. 

###### 12 
But man shall not continue in honor; he is like the beasts _that_ die. 

###### 13 
This their way _uttereth_ their foolishness; _yet_ their posterity delight in their talk. Selah. 

###### 14 
Like sheep they lie in grave; death devoureth them; and the righteous shall have domination over them in the morning; for their beauty shall consume, _when they shall go_ from their house to grave. 

###### 15 
But God shall deliver my soul from the power of the grave; for he will receive me. Selah. 

###### 16 
Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, _and_ when the glory of his house is increased. 

###### 17 
For he shall take nothing away, when he dieth, neither shall his pomp descend after him. 

###### 18 
For while he lived, he rejoiced himself; and men will praise thee, when thou makest much of thyself. 

###### 19 
He shall enter into the generation of his fathers, _and_ they shall not live forever. 

###### 20 
Man _is_ in honor; and understandeth not; he is like to beasts _that_ perish.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 48|← 19 - Psalms 48]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 50|19 - Psalms 50 →]])
