# 19 - Psalms 50

(previous:: [[Ps 49|← 19 - Psalms 49]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 51|19 - Psalms 51 →]])

***


###### 1 
The God of gods, _even_ the Lord hath spoken and called the earth from the rising up of the Sun, unto the going down thereof. 

###### 2 
Out of Zion, _which is_ the perfection of beauty, hath God shined. 

###### 3 
Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and a mighty tempest shall be moved round about him. 

###### 4 
He shall call the heaven above, and the earth to judge his people. 

###### 5 
Gather my Saints together unto me, those that make a covenant with me with sacrifice. 

###### 6 
And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is Judge himself. Selah. 

###### 7 
Hear, O my people and I will speak: _hear_, O Israel, and I will testify unto thee: _for_ I am God, _even_ thy God. 

###### 8 
I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices, or thy burnt offerings, _that have not been_ continually before me. 

###### 9 
I will take no bullock out of thine house, _nor_ goats out of thy folds. 

###### 10 
For all the beasts of the forest are mine, _and_ the beasts on a thousand mountains. 

###### 11 
I know all the fowls on the mountains, and the wild beasts of the field are mine. 

###### 12 
If I be hungry, I will not tell thee: for the world is mine and all that therein is. 

###### 13 
Will I eat the flesh of bulls? or drink the blood of goats? 

###### 14 
Offer unto God praise, and pay thy vows unto the most High, 

###### 15 
And call upon me in the day of trouble: _so_ will I deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. 

###### 16 
But unto the wicked said God, What hast thou to do to declare mine ordinances, that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth, 

###### 17 
Seeing thou hatest to be reformed, and hast cast my words behind thee? 

###### 18 
For when thou seest a thief, thou runnest with him, and thou art partaker with the adulterers. 

###### 19 
Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and with thy tongue thou forgest deceit. 

###### 20 
Thou sittest, _and_ speakest against thy brother, _and_ slanderest thy mother's son. 

###### 21 
These things hast thou done, and I held my tongue: _therefore_ thou thoughtest that I was like thee: _but_ I will reprove thee, and set _them_ in order before thee. 

###### 22 
Oh consider this ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none that can deliver _you_. 

###### 23 
He that offereth praise, shall glorify me: and to him that disposeth his way _aright_, will I show the salvation of God.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 49|← 19 - Psalms 49]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 51|19 - Psalms 51 →]])
