# 19 - Psalms 59

(previous:: [[Ps 58|← 19 - Psalms 58]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 60|19 - Psalms 60 →]])

***


###### 1 
O my God, deliver me from mine enemies; defend me from them that rise up against me. 

###### 2 
Deliver me from the wicked doers, and save me from the bloody men. 

###### 3 
For lo, they have laid wait for my soul; the mighty men are gathered against me, not for mine offense, nor for my sin, O Lord. 

###### 4 
They run and prepare themselves without a fault _on my part_: arise _therefore _to assist me, and behold. 

###### 5 
Even thou, O Lord God of hosts, O God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen, _and_ be not merciful unto all that transgress maliciously. Selah. 

###### 6 
They go to and fro in the evening: they bark like dogs, and go about the city. 

###### 7 
Behold, they brag in their talk, _and_ swords _are_ in their lips: for who, _say they_, doth hear? 

###### 8 
But thou, O Lord, shalt have them in derision, _and_ thou shalt laugh at all the heathen. 

###### 9 
He is strong: _but_ I will wait upon thee: for God _is_ my defense. 

###### 10 
My merciful God will prevent me: God will let me see _my desire_ upon mine enemies. 

###### 11 
Slay them not, lest my people forget it: _but_ scatter them abroad by thy power, and put them down, O Lord, our shield, 

###### 12 
_For_ the sin of their mouth, _and_ the words of their lips: and let them be taken in their pride, even for their perjury and lies, _that_ they speak. 

###### 13 
Consume _them_ in _thy_ wrath: consume _them_ that they be no more: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob, _even_ unto the ends of the world. Selah. 

###### 14 
And in the evening they shall go to and fro, _and_ bark like dogs, and go about the city. 

###### 15 
They shall run here and there for meat, _and_ surely they shall not be satisfied, though they tarry all night. 

###### 16 
But I will sing of thy power, and will praise thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defense and refuge in the day of my trouble. 

###### 17 
Unto thee, O my Strength will I sing: for God is my defense, _and_ my merciful God.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 58|← 19 - Psalms 58]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 60|19 - Psalms 60 →]])
