# 19 - Psalms 55

(previous:: [[Ps 54|← 19 - Psalms 54]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 56|19 - Psalms 56 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hear my prayer, O God, and hide not thyself from my supplication. 

###### 2 
Hearken unto me, and answer me: I mourn in my prayer, and make a noise, 

###### 3 
For the voice of the enemy, _and_ for the vexation of the wicked, because they have brought iniquity upon me, and furiously hate me. 

###### 4 
Mine heart trembleth within me, and the terrors of death are fallen upon me. 

###### 5 
Fear and trembling are come upon me, and an horrible fear hath covered me. 

###### 6 
And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove: then would I fly away and rest. 

###### 7 
Behold I would take my flight far off, _and_ lodge in the wilderness. Selah. 

###### 8 
He would make haste for my deliverance from the stormy wind and tempest. 

###### 9 
Destroy, O Lord, _and_ divide their tongues: for I have seen cruelty and strife in the city. 

###### 10 
Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof, both iniquity and mischief _are_ in the midst of it. 

###### 11 
Wickedness _is_ in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets. 

###### 12 
Surely mine enemy did not defame me, for I could have borne it: neither did mine adversary exalt himself against me: for I would have hid me from him. 

###### 13 
But _it was_ thou, O man, even my companion, my guide, and my familiar: 

###### 14 
Which delighted in consulting together, _and_ went into the house of God as companions. 

###### 15 
Let death seize upon them: let them go down quick into the grave: for wickedness _is_ in their dwellings _even_ in the midst of them. 

###### 16 
_But_ I will call unto God, and the Lord will save me. 

###### 17 
Evening and morning, and at noon will I pray and make a noise, and he will hear my voice. 

###### 18 
He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle _that was_ against me: for many were with me. 

###### 19 
God shall hear and afflict them, even he that reigneth of old, Selah: because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God. 

###### 20 
He laid his hand upon such as be at peace with him, _and_ he brake his covenant. 

###### 21 
_The words_ of his mouth were softer than butter, yet war _was_ in his heart, his words were more gentle than oil, yet they were swords. 

###### 22 
Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall nourish thee: he will not suffer the righteous to fall forever. 

###### 23 
And thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of corruption: the bloody, and deceitful men shall not live half their days: but I will trust in thee.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 54|← 19 - Psalms 54]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 56|19 - Psalms 56 →]])
