# 19 - Psalms 51

(previous:: [[Ps 50|← 19 - Psalms 50]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 52|19 - Psalms 52 →]])

***


###### 1 
Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving-kindness: according to the multitude of thy compassions put away mine iniquities. 

###### 2 
Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from mine sin. 

###### 3 
For I know mine iniquities, and my sin _is_ ever before me. 

###### 4 
Against thee, against thee only have I sinned, and done evil in thy sight, that thou mayest be just when thou speakest, _and_ pure when thou judgest. 

###### 5 
Behold, I was born in iniquity, and in sin hath my mother conceived me. 

###### 6 
Behold, thou lovest truth in the inward affections: therefore hast thou taught me wisdom in the secret _of mine heart_. 

###### 7 
Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. 

###### 8 
Make me to hear joy and gladness, _that_ the bones, _which_ thou hast broken, may rejoice. 

###### 9 
Hide thy face from my sins, and put away all mine iniquities. 

###### 10 
Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. 

###### 11 
Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thine holy Spirit from me. 

###### 12 
Restore to me the joy of thy salvation, and establish me with _thy_ free Spirit. 

###### 13 
_Then_ shall I teach thy ways unto the wicked, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. 

###### 14 
Deliver me from blood, O God, _which art_ the God of my salvation, _and_ my tongue shall sing joyfully of thy righteousness. 

###### 15 
Open thou my lips, O Lord, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. 

###### 16 
For thou desirest no sacrifice, though I would give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering. 

###### 17 
The sacrifices of God _are_ a contrite spirit: a contrite and a broken heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. 

###### 18 
Be favorable unto Zion for thy good pleasure: build the walls of Jerusalem. 

###### 19 
Then shalt thou accept the sacrifices of righteousness, _even_ the burnt offering and oblation: then shall they offer calves upon thine altar.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 50|← 19 - Psalms 50]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 52|19 - Psalms 52 →]])
