# 19 - Psalms 69

(previous:: [[Ps 68|← 19 - Psalms 68]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 70|19 - Psalms 70 →]])

***


###### 1 
Save me, O God: for the waters are entered even to _my_ soul. 

###### 2 
I stick fast in the deep mire, where no stay _is_: I am come into deep waters, and the streams run over me. 

###### 3 
I am weary of crying: my throat is dry: mine eyes fail, while I wait for my God. 

###### 4 
They that hate me without a cause, are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, _and_ are mine enemies falsely, are mighty, so that I restored that which I took not. 

###### 5 
O God, thou knowest my foolishness, and my faults are not hid from thee. 

###### 6 
Let not them that trust in thee, O Lord God of hosts, be ashamed for me: let not those that seek thee, be confounded through me, O God of Israel. 

###### 7 
For thy sake have I suffered reproof: shame hath covered my face. 

###### 8 
I am become a stranger unto my brethren, even an alien unto my mother's sons. 

###### 9 
For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me, and the rebukes of them that rebuked thee, are fallen upon me. 

###### 10 
I wept and my soul fasted, but that was to my reproof. 

###### 11 
I put on a sack also: and I became a proverb unto them. 

###### 12 
They that sat in the gate, spake of me, and the drunkards sang _of me_. 

###### 13 
But Lord, _I make_ my prayer unto thee in an acceptable time, _even_ in the multitude of thy mercy: O God, hear me in the truth of thy salvation. 

###### 14 
Deliver me out of the mire, that I sink not: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters. 

###### 15 
Let not the water flood drown me, neither let the deep swallow me up: and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me. 

###### 16 
Hear me, O Lord, for thy loving-kindness is good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies. 

###### 17 
And hide not thy face from thy servant, for I am in trouble; make haste _and_ hear me. 

###### 18 
Draw near unto my soul _and_ redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies. 

###### 19 
Thou hast known my reproof and my shame, and my dishonor: all mine adversaries _are_ before thee. 

###### 20 
Rebuke hath broken mine heart, and I am full of heaviness, and I looked _for some_ to have pity _on me_, but there was none: and for comforters, but I found none. 

###### 21 
For they gave me gall in my meat, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 

###### 22 
Let their table be a snare before them, and their prosperity _their_ ruin. 

###### 23 
Let their eyes be blinded that they see not: and make their loins always to tremble. 

###### 24 
Pour out thine anger upon them, and let thy wrathful displeasure take them. 

###### 25 
Let their habitation be void, _and_ let none dwell in their tents. 

###### 26 
For they persecute him, whom thou hast smitten: and they add unto the sorrow of them, whom thou hast wounded. 

###### 27 
Lay iniquity upon their iniquity, and let them not come into thy righteousness. 

###### 28 
Let them be put out of the book of life, neither let them be written with the righteous. 

###### 29 
When I am poor and in heaviness, thine help, O God, shall exalt me. 

###### 30 
I will praise the Name of God with a song, and magnify him with thanksgiving. 

###### 31 
_This_ also shall please the Lord better than a young bullock that hath horns and hoofs. 

###### 32 
The humble shall see this, _and_ they that seek God shall be glad, and your heart shall live. 

###### 33 
For the Lord heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners. 

###### 34 
Let heaven and earth praise him: the seas and all that moveth in them. 

###### 35 
For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah, that men may dwell there and have it in possession. 

###### 36 
The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 68|← 19 - Psalms 68]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 70|19 - Psalms 70 →]])
