# 19 - Psalms 68

(previous:: [[Ps 67|← 19 - Psalms 67]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 69|19 - Psalms 69 →]])

***


###### 1 
God will arise, _and_ his enemies shall be scattered: they also that hate him, shall flee before him. 

###### 2 
As the smoke vanisheth, _so_ shalt thou drive them away: _and_ as wax melteth before the fire, _so_ shall the wicked perish at the presence of God. 

###### 3 
But the righteous shall be glad, _and_ rejoice before God: yea, they shall leap for joy. 

###### 4 
Sing unto God, _and_ sing praises unto his name: exalt him that rideth upon the heavens, in his Name Jah, and rejoice before him. 

###### 5 
_He is_ a Father of the fatherless, and a Judge of the widows, _even_ God in his holy habitation. 

###### 6 
God maketh the solitary to dwell in families, _and_ delivereth them that were prisoners in stocks: but the rebellious shall dwell in a dry land. 

###### 7 
O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people: when thou wentest through the wilderness, (Selah.) 

###### 8 
The earth shook, and the heavens dropped at the presence of this God: _even_ Sinai _was moved_ at the presence of God, _even_ the God of Israel. 

###### 9 
Thou, O God, sentest a gracious rain _upon_ thine inheritance, and thou didst refresh it when it was weary. 

###### 10 
Thy Congregation dwelled therein: _for_ thou, O God, hast of thy goodness prepared it for the poor. 

###### 11 
The Lord gave matter to the women to tell of the great army. 

###### 12 
Kings of the armies did flee: they did flee, and she that remained in the house, divided the spoil. 

###### 13 
Though ye have lain among pots, _yet shall ye be as_ the wings of a dove that is covered with silver, and whose feathers _are like_ yellow gold. 

###### 14 
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as the snow in Zalmon. 

###### 15 
The mountain of God _is like_ the mountain of Bashan: _it is_ an high mountain, _as_ mount Bashan. 

###### 16 
Why leap ye, ye high mountains? as for this Mountain, God delighteth to dwell in it: yea, the Lord will dwell in it forever. 

###### 17 
The chariots of God _are_ twenty thousand thousand Angels, _and_ the Lord is among them, _as_ in the Sanctuary of Sinai. 

###### 18 
Thou art gone up on high: thou hast led captivity captive, _and_ received gifts for men: yea, even the rebellious hast thou led, that the Lord God might dwell there. 

###### 19 
Praised _be_ the Lord, _even_ the God of our salvation, which ladeth us daily _with benefits_. Selah. 

###### 20 
This _is_ our God, _even_ the God that saveth _us_: and to the Lord God _belong_ the issues of death. 

###### 21 
Surely God will wound the head of his enemies, _and_ the hairy pate of him that walketh in his sins. 

###### 22 
The Lord hath said, I will bring _my people_ again from Bashan: I will bring them again from the depths of the Sea: 

###### 23 
That thy foot may be dipped in blood, _and_ the tongue of thy dogs _in the blood_ of the enemies, _even_ in it. 

###### 24 
They have seen, O God, thy goings, the goings of my God, _and_ my king, _which_ art in the Sanctuary. 

###### 25 
The singers went before, the players of instruments after: in the midst _were_ the maids playing with timbrels. 

###### 26 
Praise ye God in the assemblies, _and_ the Lord, _ye that are_ of the fountain of Israel. 

###### 27 
There _was_ little Benjamin _with_ their ruler, _and_ the Princes of Judah _with_ their assembly, the princes of Zebulun, _and_ the princes of Naphtali. 

###### 28 
Thy GOD hath appointed thy strength: establish, O God, that _which_ thou first wrought in us, 

###### 29 
Out of thy Temple upon Jerusalem, _and_ kings shall bring presents unto thee. 

###### 30 
Destroy the company of the spearmen, _and_ multitude of the mighty bulls with the calves of the people, that tread under feet pieces of silver: scatter the people that delight in war. 

###### 31 
_Then_ shall the princes come out of Egypt: Ethiopia shall haste to stretch her hands unto God. 

###### 32 
Sing unto God, O ye kingdoms of the earth: sing praise unto the Lord, (Selah) 

###### 33 
To him that rideth upon the most high heavens, _which were from_ the beginning: behold, he will send out by his voice a mighty sound. 

###### 34 
Ascribe the power to God: _for_ his majesty _is_ upon Israel, and his strength _is_ in the clouds. 

###### 35 
O God, thou art terrible out of thine holy places: the God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto the people: praised _be_ God.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 67|← 19 - Psalms 67]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 69|19 - Psalms 69 →]])
