# 19 - Psalms 66

(previous:: [[Ps 65|← 19 - Psalms 65]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 67|19 - Psalms 67 →]])

***


###### 1 
Rejoice in God, all ye _inhabitants_ of the earth. 

###### 2 
Sing forth the glory of his Name: make his praise glorious. 

###### 3 
Say unto God, How terrible art thou _in_ thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies be in subjection unto thee. 

###### 4 
All the world shall worship thee, and sing unto thee, _even_ sing of thy Name. Selah. 

###### 5 
Come and behold the works of God: he is terrible in _his_ doings toward the sons of men. 

###### 6 
He hath turned the sea into dry land: they passed through the river on foot: there did we rejoice in him. 

###### 7 
He ruleth the world with his power: his eyes behold the nations: the rebellious shall not exalt themselves. Selah. 

###### 8 
Praise our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard. 

###### 9 
Which holdeth our souls in life, and suffereth not our feet to slip. 

###### 10 
For thou, O God, hast proved us, thou hast tried us as silver is tried. 

###### 11 
Thou hast brought us unto the snare, _and_ laid a strait _chain_ upon our loins. 

###### 12 
Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads: we went into fire and into water, but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy _place_. 

###### 13 
I will go into thine House with burnt offerings, _and_ will pay thee my vows, 

###### 14 
Which my lips have promised, and my mouth hath spoken in mine affliction. 

###### 15 
I will offer unto thee the burnt offerings of fat rams with incense: I will prepare bullocks and goats. Selah. 

###### 16 
Come _and_ hearken, all ye that fear God, and I will tell you what he hath done to my soul. 

###### 17 
I called unto him with my mouth, and he was exalted with my tongue. 

###### 18 
If I regard wickedness in mine heart, the Lord will not hear me. 

###### 19 
But God hath heard _me, and_ considered the voice of my prayer. 

###### 20 
Praised _be_ God, which hath not put back my prayer, nor his mercy from me.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 65|← 19 - Psalms 65]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 67|19 - Psalms 67 →]])
