# 19 - Psalms 65

(previous:: [[Ps 64|← 19 - Psalms 64]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 66|19 - Psalms 66 →]])

***


###### 1 
O God, praise waiteth for thee in Zion, and unto thee shall the vow be performed. 

###### 2 
_Because thou_ hearest the prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. 

###### 3 
Wicked deeds have prevailed against me: _but_ thou wilt be merciful unto our transgressions. 

###### 4 
Blessed _is he, whom_ thou choosest and causest to come _to thee_: he shall dwell in thy courts, _and_ we shall be satisfied with the pleasures of thine House, _even_ of thine holy Temple. 

###### 5 
O God of our salvation, thou wilt answer us with fearful _signs_ in _thy_ righteousness, O _thou_ the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are far off in the Sea. 

###### 6 
He establisheth the mountains by his power: _and_ is girded about with strength. 

###### 7 
He appeaseth the noise of the seas, _and_ the noise of the waves thereof, and the tumults of the people. 

###### 8 
They also that dwell in the uttermost parts _of the earth_, shall be afraid of thy signs; thou shalt make the East and the West to rejoice. 

###### 9 
Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it; thou makest it very rich: the river of God is full of water, thou preparest them corn; for so thou appointest it. 

###### 10 
Thou waterest abundantly the furrows thereof; thou causest _the rain_ to descend into the valleys thereof; thou makest it soft with showers, _and_ blessest the bud thereof. 

###### 11 
Thou crownest the year with thy goodness, and thy steps drop fatness. 

###### 12 
They drop _upon_ the pastures of the wilderness: and the hills shall be compassed with gladness. 

###### 13 
The pastures are clad with sheep; the valleys also shall be covered with corn; _therefore_ they shout for joy, and sing.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 64|← 19 - Psalms 64]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 66|19 - Psalms 66 →]])
