# 19 - Psalms 74

(previous:: [[Ps 73|← 19 - Psalms 73]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 75|19 - Psalms 75 →]])

***


###### 1 
O God, why hast thou put us away forever? _why_ is thy wrath kindled against the sheep of thy pasture? 

###### 2 
Think upon the congregation, _which_ thou hast possessed of old, and on the rod of thine inheritance, _which_ thou hast redeemed, _and_ on this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt. 

###### 3 
Lift up thy strokes, that thou mayest forever destroy every enemy that doeth evil to the Sanctuary. 

###### 4 
Thine adversaries roar in the midst of thy congregation, _and_ set up their banners for signs. 

###### 5 
_He that __lifted_ the axes upon the thick trees, was renowned as one that brought a thing to perfection: 

###### 6 
But now they break down the carved work thereof with axes and hammers. 

###### 7 
They have cast thy Sanctuary into the fire, _and razed it_ to the ground, _and_ have defiled the dwelling place of thy Name. 

###### 8 
They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them altogether: they have burnt all the Synagogues of God in the land. 

###### 9 
We see not our signs: there is not one Prophet more, nor any with us that knoweth how long. 

###### 10 
O God, how long shall the adversary reproach _thee_? shall the enemy blaspheme thy Name forever? 

###### 11 
Why withdrawest thou thine hand, even thy right hand? _draw it_ out of thy bosom, _and_ consume them. 

###### 12 
Even God _is_ my king of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. 

###### 13 
Thou didst divide the sea by thy power: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters. 

###### 14 
Thou brakest the head of Leviathan in pieces, _and_ gavest him to be meat for the people in wilderness. 

###### 15 
Thou brakest up the fountain and river: thou driest up mighty rivers. 

###### 16 
The day is thine, and the night is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. 

###### 17 
Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made Summer and Winter. 

###### 18 
Remember this, _that_ the enemy hath reproached the Lord, and the foolish people hath blasphemed thy Name. 

###### 19 
Give not the soul of thy turtle dove unto the beast, _and_ forget not the Congregation of thy poor forever. 

###### 20 
Consider _thy_ covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of the cruel. 

###### 21 
O let not the oppressed return ashamed, _but_ let the poor and needy praise thy Name. 

###### 22 
Arise, O God: maintain thy own cause: remember thy daily reproach by the foolish man. 

###### 23 
Forget not the voice of thine enemies: _for_ the tumult of them that rise against thee, ascendeth continually.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 73|← 19 - Psalms 73]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 75|19 - Psalms 75 →]])
