# 19 - Psalms 78

(previous:: [[Ps 77|← 19 - Psalms 77]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 79|19 - Psalms 79 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hear my doctrine, O my people: incline your ears unto the words of my mouth. 

###### 2 
I will open my mouth in a parable: I will declare high sentences of old. 

###### 3 
Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. 

###### 4 
We will not hide them from their children, _but_ to the generation to come we will show the praise of the Lord, his power also, and his wonderful works that he hath done: 

###### 5 
How he established a testimony in Jacob, and ordained a Law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should teach their children: 

###### 6 
That the posterity might know it, _and_ the children, which should be born, should stand up, and declare it to their children. 

###### 7 
That they might set their hope on God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments: 

###### 8 
And not to be as their fathers, a disobedient and rebellious generation: a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not faithful unto God. 

###### 9 
The children of Ephraim being armed and shooting with the bow, turned back in the day of battle. 

###### 10 
They kept not the Covenant of God, but refused to walk in his Law, 

###### 11 
And forgate his acts, and his wonderful works that he had showed them. 

###### 12 
He did marvelous things in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt; _even_ in the field of Zoan. 

###### 13 
He divided the Sea, and led them through: he made also the waters to stand as an heap. 

###### 14 
In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire. 

###### 15 
He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as of the great depths. 

###### 16 
He brought floods also out of the stony rock, so that he made the waters to descend like the rivers. 

###### 17 
Yet they sinned still against him, and provoked the Highest in the wilderness, 

###### 18 
And tempted God in their hearts in requiring meat for their lust. 

###### 19 
They spake against God also, saying, Can God prepare a table in the wilderness? 

###### 20 
Behold, he smote the rock, that the water gushed out, and the streams overflowed: can he give bread also? or prepare flesh for his people? 

###### 21 
Therefore the Lord heard, and was angry, and the fire was kindled in Jacob, and also wrath came upon Israel, 

###### 22 
Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his help. 

###### 23 
Yet he had commanded the clouds above, and had opened the doors of heaven, 

###### 24 
And had rained down Manna upon them for to eat, and had given them of the wheat of heaven. 

###### 25 
Man did eat the bread of Angels: he sent them meat enough. 

###### 26 
He caused the East wind to pass in the heaven: and through his power he brought in the South wind. 

###### 27 
He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowl as the sand of the sea. 

###### 28 
And he made it fall in the midst of their camp, _even_ round about their habitations. 

###### 29 
So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their desire. 

###### 30 
They were not turned from their lusts, _but_ the meat _was_ yet in their mouths, 

###### 31 
When the wrath of God came even upon them, and slew the strongest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel. 

###### 32 
For all this they sinned still, and believed not his wondrous works. 

###### 33 
Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years hastily. 

###### 34 
And when he slew them, they sought him, and they returned, and sought God early. 

###### 35 
And they remembered that God _was_ their strength, and the most high God their redeemer. 

###### 36 
But they flattered him with their mouth, and dissembled with him with their tongue. 

###### 37 
For their heart was not upright with him: neither were they faithful in his covenant. 

###### 38 
Yet he being merciful, forgave _their_ iniquity, and destroyed _them_ not, but oft times called back his anger, and did not stir up all his wrath. 

###### 39 
For he remembered that they were flesh: _yea_, a wind that passeth and cometh not again. 

###### 40 
How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness? _and_ grieve him in the desert? 

###### 41 
Yea, they returned and tempted God, and limited the Holy one of Israel. 

###### 42 
They remembered not his hand, _nor_ the day when he delivered them from the enemy, 

###### 43 
_Nor_ him that set his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan, 

###### 44 
And turned their rivers into blood, and their floods, that they could not drink. 

###### 45 
He sent a swarm of flies among them, which devoured them, and frogs, which destroyed them. 

###### 46 
He gave also their fruits unto the caterpillar, and their labor unto the grasshopper. 

###### 47 
He destroyed their vines with hail, and their wild fig trees with the hailstone. 

###### 48 
He gave their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to the thunderbolts. 

###### 49 
He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, indignation and wrath, and vexation by the sending out of evil angels. 

###### 50 
He made a way to his anger: he spared not their soul from death, _but_ gave their life to the pestilence, 

###### 51 
And smote all the firstborn in Egypt, _even_ the beginning of _their_ strength in the tabernacles of Ham. 

###### 52 
But he made his people to go out like sheep, and led them in the wilderness like a flock. 

###### 53 
Yea, he carried them out safely, and they feared not, and the Sea covered their enemies. 

###### 54 
And he brought them unto the borders of his Sanctuary: _even_ to this Mountain _which_ his right hand purchased. 

###### 55 
He cast out the heathen also before them, and caused them to fall to the lot of _his_ inheritance, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tabernacles. 

###### 56 
Yet they tempted, and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies, 

###### 57 
But turned back, and dealt falsely like their fathers: they turned like a deceitful bow. 

###### 58 
And they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to wrath with their graven images. 

###### 59 
God heard _this_ and was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel, 

###### 60 
So that he forsook the habitation of Shiloh, _even_ the Tabernacle where he dwelt among men, 

###### 61 
And delivered his power into captivity, and his beauty into the enemy's hand. 

###### 62 
And he gave up his people to the sword, and was angry with his inheritance. 

###### 63 
The fire devoured their chosen men, and their maids were not praised. 

###### 64 
Their Priests fell by the sword, and their widows lamented not. 

###### 65 
But the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, _and_ as a strong man that after _his_ wine crieth out, 

###### 66 
And smote his enemies in the hinder _parts_, _and_ put them to a perpetual shame. 

###### 67 
Yet he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim: 

###### 68 
But chose the tribe of Judah, _and_ mount Zion which he loved. 

###### 69 
And he built his Sanctuary as an high _palace_, like the earth, which he established forever. 

###### 70 
He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds. 

###### 71 
Even from behind the ewes with young, brought he him to feed his people in Jacob, and his inheritance in Israel. 

###### 72 
So he fed them according to the simplicity of his heart, and guided them by the discretion of his hands.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 77|← 19 - Psalms 77]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 79|19 - Psalms 79 →]])
