# 19 - Psalms 79

(previous:: [[Ps 78|← 19 - Psalms 78]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 80|19 - Psalms 80 →]])

***


###### 1 
O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance: thine holy Temple have they defiled, and made Jerusalem heaps _of stones_. 

###### 2 
The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto fowls of the heaven, _and_ the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth. 

###### 3 
Their blood have they shed like waters, round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them. 

###### 4 
We are a reproach to our neighbors, _even_ a scorn and derision unto them that are round about us. 

###### 5 
Lord, how long wilt thou be angry, forever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire? 

###### 6 
Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy Name. 

###### 7 
For they have devoured Jacob, and made his dwelling place desolate. 

###### 8 
Remember not against us the former iniquities, _but_ make haste, _and_ let thy tender mercies prevent us: for we are in great misery. 

###### 9 
Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy Name, and deliver us, and be merciful unto our sins for thy Name's sake. 

###### 10 
Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let them be known among the heathen in our sight by the vengeance of the blood of thy servants that is shed. 

###### 11 
Let the sighing of the prisoners come before thee: according to thy mighty arm preserve the children of death, 

###### 12 
And render to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord. 

###### 13 
So we thy people, and sheep of thy pasture shall praise thee forever: and from generation to generation we will set forth thy praise.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 78|← 19 - Psalms 78]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 80|19 - Psalms 80 →]])
