# 19 - Psalms 71

(previous:: [[Ps 70|← 19 - Psalms 70]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 72|19 - Psalms 72 →]])

***


###### 1 
In thee, O Lord, I trust: let me never be ashamed. 

###### 2 
Rescue me and deliver me in thy righteousness: incline thine ear unto me and save me. 

###### 3 
Be thou my strong rock, whereunto I may always resort: thou hast given commandment to save me: for thou art my rock, and my fortress. 

###### 4 
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked: out of the hand of the evil and cruel man. 

###### 5 
For thou art mine hope, O Lord God, _even_ my trust from my youth. 

###### 6 
Upon thee have I been stayed from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise shall be always of thee. 

###### 7 
I am become as it were a monster unto many: but thou art my sure trust. 

###### 8 
Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, _and_ with thy glory every day. 

###### 9 
Cast me not off in the time of age: forsake me not when my strength faileth. 

###### 10 
For mine enemies speak of me, and they that lay wait for my soul, take their counsel together, 

###### 11 
Saying, God hath forsaken him: pursue and take him, for there is none to deliver _him_. 

###### 12 
Go not far from me, O God: my God haste thee to help me. 

###### 13 
Let them be confounded _and_ consumed that are against my soul: let them be covered with reproof and confusion, that seek mine hurt. 

###### 14 
But I will wait continually, and will praise thee more and more. 

###### 15 
My mouth shall daily rehearse thy righteousness, _and_ thy salvation: for I know not the number. 

###### 16 
I will go forward in the strength of the Lord God, _and_ will make mention of thy righteousness, _even_ of thine only. 

###### 17 
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth even until now: _therefore_ will I tell of thy wondrous works, 

###### 18 
Yea even unto _mine_ old age and gray head, O God: forsake me not, until I have declared thine arm unto _this_ generation, _and_ thy power to all them that shall come. 

###### 19 
And thy righteousness, O God, _I will exalt_ on high: for thou hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee! 

###### 20 
Which hast showed me great troubles and adversities, _but_ thou wilt return _and_ revive me, and wilt come again, _and_ take me up from the depth of the earth. 

###### 21 
Thou wilt increase mine honor, and return _and_ comfort me. 

###### 22 
Therefore will I praise thee _for_ thy faithfulness, O God, upon instrument _and_ viol: unto thee will I sing upon the harp, O Holy one of Israel. 

###### 23 
My lips will rejoice when I sing unto thee, and my soul which thou hast delivered. 

###### 24 
My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness daily: for they are confounded and brought unto shame, that seek mine hurt.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 70|← 19 - Psalms 70]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 72|19 - Psalms 72 →]])
