# 19 - Psalms 73

(previous:: [[Ps 72|← 19 - Psalms 72]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 74|19 - Psalms 74 →]])

***


###### 1 
Yet God is good to Israel: _even_ to the pure in heart. 

###### 2 
As for me, my feet were almost gone: my steps had well near slipped. 

###### 3 
For I fretted at the foolish, _when_ I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 

###### 4 
For there are no bands in their death, but they are lusty _and_ strong. 

###### 5 
They are not in trouble _as other_ men, neither are they plagued with _other_ men. 

###### 6 
Therefore pride _is_ as a chain unto them, _and_ cruelty covereth them _as_ a garment. 

###### 7 
Their eyes stand out for fatness: they have more than heart can wish. 

###### 8 
They are licentious, and speak wickedly of _their_ oppression: they talk presumptuously. 

###### 9 
They set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue walketh through the earth. 

###### 10 
Therefore his people turn hither: for waters of a full _cup_ are wrung out to them. 

###### 11 
And they say, How doth God know it? or is there knowledge in the most High? 

###### 12 
Lo these are the wicked, yet prosper they always, _and_ increase in riches. 

###### 13 
Certainly I have cleansed mine heart in vain, and washed mine hands in innocency. 

###### 14 
For daily have I been punished, and chastened _every_ morning. 

###### 15 
If I say, I will judge thus, behold the generation of thy children, I have trespassed. 

###### 16 
Then thought I to know this, _but_ it was too painful for me, 

###### 17 
Until I went into the Sanctuary of God: _then_ understood I their end. 

###### 18 
Surely thou hast set them in slippery places, _and_ castest them down into desolation. 

###### 19 
How suddenly are they destroyed, perished _and_ horribly consumed, 

###### 20 
As a dream when one awaketh! O Lord, when thou raisest us up, thou shalt make their image despised. 

###### 21 
Certainly mine heart was vexed, and I was pricked in my reins. 

###### 22 
So foolish was I and ignorant: I was a beast before thee. 

###### 23 
Yet I was always with thee: thou hast holden _me_ by my right hand. 

###### 24 
Thou wilt guide me by thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. 

###### 25 
Whom have I in heaven _but thee_? and I have desired none in the earth with thee. 

###### 26 
My flesh faileth and mine heart _also: but_ God _is_ the strength of mine heart, and my portion forever. 

###### 27 
For lo, that they withdraw themselves from thee, shall perish: thou destroyest all them that go a whoring from thee. 

###### 28 
As for me, it is good for me to draw near to God: _therefore_ I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy works.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 72|← 19 - Psalms 72]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 74|19 - Psalms 74 →]])
