# 19 - Psalms 72

(previous:: [[Ps 71|← 19 - Psalms 71]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 73|19 - Psalms 73 →]])

***


###### 1 
Give thy judgments to the King, O God, and thy righteousness to the King's son. 

###### 2 
_Then_ shall he judge thy people in righteousness, and thy poor with equity. 

###### 3 
The mountains, and the hills shall bring peace to the people by justice. 

###### 4 
He shall judge the poor of the people: he shall save the children of the needy, and shall subdue the oppressor. 

###### 5 
They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endureth, from generation to generation. 

###### 6 
He shall come down like the rain upon the mown grass, _and_ as the showers that water the earth. 

###### 7 
In his days shall the righteous flourish, and abundance of peace _shall be_ so long as the moon endureth. 

###### 8 
His dominion shall be also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the land. 

###### 9 
They that dwell in the wilderness, shall kneel before him, and his enemies shall lick the dust. 

###### 10 
The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall bring gifts. 

###### 11 
Yea, all kings shall worship him: all nations shall serve him. 

###### 12 
For he shall deliver the poor when he crieth: the needy also, and him that hath no helper. 

###### 13 
He shall be merciful to the poor and needy, and shall preserve the souls of the poor. 

###### 14 
He shall redeem their souls from deceit and violence, and dear shall their blood be in his sight. 

###### 15 
Yea, he shall live, and unto him shall they give of the gold of Sheba: they shall also pray for him continually, _and_ daily bless him. 

###### 16 
An handful of corn shall be _sown_ in the earth, _even_ in the top of the mountains, _and_ the fruit thereof shalt shake like _the trees_ of Lebanon: and the _children_ shall flourish out of the city like the grass of the earth. 

###### 17 
His name shall be forever: his name shall endure as long as the Sun: all nations shall bless him, and be blessed in him. 

###### 18 
Blessed _be_ the Lord God, _even_ the God of Israel which only doeth wondrous things. 

###### 19 
And blessed _be_ his glorious Name forever: and let all the earth be filled with his glory. So be it, even so be it. <sup class="versenum">[20]</sup>Here end the prayers of David the son of Jesse.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 71|← 19 - Psalms 71]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 73|19 - Psalms 73 →]])
