# 19 - Psalms 77

(previous:: [[Ps 76|← 19 - Psalms 76]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 78|19 - Psalms 78 →]])

***


###### 1 
My voice _came_ to God, when I cried: my voice _came_ to God; and he heard me. 

###### 2 
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran and ceased not in the night: my soul refused comfort. 

###### 3 
I did think upon God, and was troubled: I prayed, and my spirit was full of anguish. Selah. 

###### 4 
Thou keepest mine eyes waking: I was astonied, and could not speak. 

###### 5 
_Then_ I considered the days of old: _and_ the years of ancient time. 

###### 6 
I called to remembrance my song in the night: I communed with mine own heart, and my spirit searched diligently. 

###### 7 
Will the Lord absent himself forever? and will he show no more favor? 

###### 8 
Is his mercy clean gone forever? doth his promise fail forevermore? 

###### 9 
Hath God forgotten to be merciful? hath he shut up his tender mercies in displeasure? Selah. 

###### 10 
And I said, This is my death: _yet I remembered_ the years of the right hand of the most High. 

###### 11 
I remembered the works of the Lord: certainly I remembered thy wonders of old. 

###### 12 
I did also meditate all thy works, and did devise of thine acts, _saying_, 

###### 13 
Thy way, O God, _is_ in the Sanctuary: who is so great a God, as _our_ God! 

###### 14 
Thou art the God that doest wonders; thou hast declared thy power among the people. 

###### 15 
Thou hast redeemed thy people with _thine_ arm, _even_ the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. 

###### 16 
The waters saw thee, O God: the waters saw thee, _and_ were afraid: yea, the depths trembled. 

###### 17 
The clouds poured out water: the heavens gave a sound: yea, thine arrows went abroad. 

###### 18 
The voice of thy thunder was round about; the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook. 

###### 19 
Thy way _is_ in the sea, and thy paths in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known. 

###### 20 
Thou didst lead thy people like sheep by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 76|← 19 - Psalms 76]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 78|19 - Psalms 78 →]])
