# 19 - Psalms 89

(previous:: [[Ps 88|← 19 - Psalms 88]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 90|19 - Psalms 90 →]])

***


###### 1 
I will sing the mercies of the Lord forever: with my mouth will I declare thy truth from generation to generation. 

###### 2 
For I said, Mercy shall be set up forever: thy truth shalt thou stablish in the very heavens. 

###### 3 
I have made a covenant with my chosen: I have sworn to David my servant, 

###### 4 
Thy seed will I stablish forever, and set up thy throne from generation to generation. Selah. 

###### 5 
O Lord, even the heavens shall praise thy wondrous work: yea, thy truth in the Congregation of the Saints. 

###### 6 
For who is equal to the Lord in the heaven? _and who_ is like the Lord among the sons of the gods? 

###### 7 
God is very terrible in the assembly of the Saints, and to be reverenced above all _that are_ about him. 

###### 8 
O Lord God of hosts, who is like unto thee, _which art_ a mighty Lord, and thy truth _is_ about thee? 

###### 9 
Thou rulest the raging of the Sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. 

###### 10 
Thou hast beaten down Rahab as a man slain: thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy mighty arm. 

###### 11 
The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: thou hast laid the foundation of the world, and all that therein is. 

###### 12 
Thou hast created the North and the South: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy Name. 

###### 13 
Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, _and_ high is thy right hand. 

###### 14 
Righteousness and equity _are_ the stablishment of thy throne: mercy and truth go before thy face. 

###### 15 
Blessed _is_ the people that can rejoice _in thee_: they shall walk in the light of thy countenance, O Lord. 

###### 16 
They shall rejoice continually in thy Name, and in thy righteousness shall they exalt themselves. 

###### 17 
For thou art the glory of their strength, and by thy favor our horns shall be exalted. 

###### 18 
For our shield _appertaineth_ to the Lord, and our King to the Holy one of Israel. 

###### 19 
Thou spakest then in a vision unto thine Holy one, and saidest, I have laid help upon one that is mighty: I have exalted one chosen out of the people. 

###### 20 
I have found David my servant: with mine holy oil have I anointed him. 

###### 21 
Therefore mine hand shall be established with him, and mine arm shall strengthen him. 

###### 22 
The enemy shall not oppress him, neither shall the wicked hurt him. 

###### 23 
But I will destroy his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. 

###### 24 
My truth also and my mercy _shall be_ with him, and in my Name shall his horn be exalted. 

###### 25 
I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the floods. 

###### 26 
He shall cry unto me, Thou art my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. 

###### 27 
Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. 

###### 28 
My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my Covenant shall stand fast with him. 

###### 29 
His seed also will I make to endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven. 

###### 30 
_But_ if his children forsake my Law, and walk not in my judgments: 

###### 31 
If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments: 

###### 32 
Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with strokes. 

###### 33 
Yet my loving kindness will I not take from him, neither will I falsify my truth. 

###### 34 
My Covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. 

###### 35 
I have sworn once by mine holiness, that I will not fail David, _saying_, 

###### 36 
His seed shall endure forever, and his throne _shall be_ as the sun before me. 

###### 37 
He shall be established for evermore as the moon, and _as_ a faithful witness in the heaven. Selah. 

###### 38 
But thou hast rejected and abhorred, thou hast been angry with thine anointed. 

###### 39 
Thou hast broken the Covenant of thy servant, _and_ profaned his crown, _casting it_ on the ground. 

###### 40 
Thou hast broken down all his walls: thou hast laid his fortresses in ruin. 

###### 41 
All that go by the way, spoil him: he is a rebuke unto his neighbors. 

###### 42 
Thou hast set up the right hand of his enemies, _and_ made all his adversaries to rejoice. 

###### 43 
Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle. 

###### 44 
Thou hast caused his dignity to decay, and cast his throne to the ground. 

###### 45 
The days of his youth hast thou shortened, _and_ covered him with shame. Selah. 

###### 46 
Lord, how long wilt thou hide thyself, forever? shall thy wrath burn like fire? 

###### 47 
Remember of what time I am: wherefore shouldest thou create in vain all the children of men? 

###### 48 
What man liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah. 

###### 49 
Lord, where are thy former mercies, _which_ thou swarest unto David in thy truth? 

###### 50 
Remember, O Lord, the rebuke of thy servants, which I bear in my bosom of all the mighty people. 

###### 51 
For thine enemies have reproached _thee_, O Lord, because they have reproached the footsteps of thine Anointed. 

###### 52 
Praised _be_ the Lord for evermore. So be it, even so be it.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 88|← 19 - Psalms 88]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 90|19 - Psalms 90 →]])
