# 19 - Psalms 83

(previous:: [[Ps 82|← 19 - Psalms 82]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 84|19 - Psalms 84 →]])

***


###### 1 
Keep not thou silence, O God: be not still, and cease not, O God. 

###### 2 
For lo, thine enemies make a tumult, and they that hate thee, have lifted up the head. 

###### 3 
They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and have consulted against thy secret ones. 

###### 4 
They have said, Come and let us cut them off from being a nation: and let the name of Israel be no more in remembrance. 

###### 5 
For they have consulted together in heart, _and_ have made a league against thee: 

###### 6 
The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagarites: 

###### 7 
Gebal and Ammon, and Amalek, the Philistines, with the inhabitants of Tyre. 

###### 8 
Assyria also is joined with them: they have been an arm to the children of Lot. Selah. 

###### 9 
Do thou to them as unto the Midianites: as to Sisera _and_ as to Jabin at the river of Kishon. 

###### 10 
They perished at En Dor, _and_ were dung for the earth. 

###### 11 
Make them, _even_ their princes, like Oreb and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes like Zebah and like Zalmunna, 

###### 12 
Which have said, Let us take for our possession the habitations of God. 

###### 13 
O my God, make them like unto a wheel, _and_ as the stubble before the wind. 

###### 14 
As the fire burneth the forest, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire: 

###### 15 
So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm. 

###### 16 
Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek thy Name, O Lord. 

###### 17 
Let them be confounded and troubled forever: yea, let them be put to shame, and perish, 

###### 18 
That they may know that thou, which art calleth Jehovah, art alone, _even_ the most High over all the earth.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 82|← 19 - Psalms 82]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 84|19 - Psalms 84 →]])
