# 19 - Psalms 80

(previous:: [[Ps 79|← 19 - Psalms 79]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 81|19 - Psalms 81 →]])

***


###### 1 
Hear, O thou shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like sheep: show _thy_ brightness, thou that sittest between the Cherubims. 

###### 2 
Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come to help us. 

###### 3 
Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine that we may be saved. 

###### 4 
O Lord God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? 

###### 5 
Thou hast fed them with the bread of tears, and given them tears to drink with great measure. 

###### 6 
Thou hast made us a strife unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh _at us_ among themselves. 

###### 7 
Turn us again, O God of hosts: cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. 

###### 8 
Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it. 

###### 9 
Thou madest room for it, and didst cause it to take root, and it filled the land. 

###### 10 
The mountains were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof _were like_ the goodly cedars. 

###### 11 
She stretched out her branches unto the Sea, and her boughs unto the river. 

###### 12 
Why hast thou _then_ broken down her hedges, so that all they, which pass by the way, have plucked her? 

###### 13 
The wild boar out of the wood hath destroyed it, and the wild beasts of the field have eaten it up. 

###### 14 
Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven and behold, and visit this vine, 

###### 15 
And the vineyard, that thy right hand hath planted, and the young vine, _which_ thou madest strong for thyself. 

###### 16 
It is burnt with fire, _and_ cut down: _and_ they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. 

###### 17 
Let thine hand be upon the man of thy right hand, _and_ upon the son of man, _whom_ thou madest strong for thine own self. 

###### 18 
So will not we go back from thee, revive thou us, and we shall call upon thy Name. 

###### 19 
Turn us again, O Lord God of hosts: cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 79|← 19 - Psalms 79]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 81|19 - Psalms 81 →]])
