# 19 - Psalms 81

(previous:: [[Ps 80|← 19 - Psalms 80]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 82|19 - Psalms 82 →]])

***


###### 1 
Sing joyfully unto God our strength: sing loud unto the God of Jacob. 

###### 2 
Take the song and bring forth the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the viol. 

###### 3 
Blow the trumpet in the new moon, _even_ in the time appointed at our feast day. 

###### 4 
For this is a statute for Israel, _and_ a Law of the God of Jacob. 

###### 5 
He set this in Joseph for a testimony, when he came out of the land of Egypt, _where_ I heard a language, that I understood not. 

###### 6 
I have withdrawn his shoulder from the burden, _and_ his hands have left the pots. 

###### 7 
Thou calledst in affliction, and I delivered thee, _and_ answered thee in the secret of the thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah. 

###### 8 
Hear, O my people, and I will protest unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me, 

###### 9 
And wilt have no strange god in thee, neither worship any strange god, 

###### 10 
_(For_ I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt:) open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. 

###### 11 
But my people would not hear my voice, and Israel would none of me, 

###### 12 
So I gave them up unto the hardness of their heart, _and_ they have walked in their own counsels. 

###### 13 
Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, _and_ Israel had walked in my ways! 

###### 14 
I would soon have humbled their enemies, and turned mine hand against their adversaries. 

###### 15 
The haters of the Lord should have been subject unto him, and their time should have endured forever. 

###### 16 
And _God_ would have fed them with the fat of wheat, and with honey out of the rock would I have sufficed thee.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 80|← 19 - Psalms 80]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 82|19 - Psalms 82 →]])
