# 19 - Psalms 88

(previous:: [[Ps 87|← 19 - Psalms 87]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 89|19 - Psalms 89 →]])

***


###### 1 
O Lord God of my salvation, I cry day _and_ night before thee. 

###### 2 
Let my prayer enter into thy presence: incline thine ear unto my cry. 

###### 3 
For my soul is filled with evils, and my life draweth near to the grave. 

###### 4 
I am counted among them that go down unto the pit, _and_ am as a man without strength, 

###### 5 
Free among the dead, like the slain laying in the grave, when thou rememberest no more, and they are cut off from thy hand. 

###### 6 
Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, _and_ in the deep. 

###### 7 
Thine indignation lieth upon me, and thou hast vexed me with all thy waves. Selah. 

###### 8 
Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me, _and_ made me to be abhorred of them: I am shut up, and cannot get forth. 

###### 9 
Mine eye is sorrowful through mine affliction: Lord, I call daily upon thee: I stretch out mine hands unto thee. 

###### 10 
Wilt thou show a miracle to the dead? or shall the dead rise _and_ praise thee? Selah. 

###### 11 
Shall thy loving kindness be declared in the grave? _or_ thy faithfulness in destruction? 

###### 12 
Shall thy wondrous works be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of oblivion? 

###### 13 
But unto thee, have I cried, O Lord, and early shall my prayer come before thee. 

###### 14 
Lord, why dost thou reject my soul, _and_ hidest thy face from me? 

###### 15 
I am afflicted and at the point of death: from _my_ youth I suffer thy terrors, doubting _of my life. _ 

###### 16 
Thine indignations go over me, and thy fear hath cut me off. 

###### 17 
They came round about me daily like water, _and_ compassed me together. 

###### 18 
My lovers and friends hast thou put away from me, _and_ mine acquaintance hid themselves.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 87|← 19 - Psalms 87]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 89|19 - Psalms 89 →]])
