# 19 - Psalms 90

(previous:: [[Ps 89|← 19 - Psalms 89]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 91|19 - Psalms 91 →]])

***


###### 1 
Lord, thou hast been our habitation from generation to generation. 

###### 2 
Before the mountains were made, and _before_ thou hadst formed the earth, and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting thou art _our_ God. 

###### 3 
Thou turnest man to destruction: again thou sayest, Return ye sons of Adam. 

###### 4 
For a thousand years in thy sight _are_ as yesterday when it is past, and _as_ a watch in the night. 

###### 5 
Thou hast overflowed them, they are _as_ a sleep, in the morning he groweth like the grass: 

###### 6 
In the morning it flourisheth and groweth, _but_ in the evening it is cut down and withereth. 

###### 7 
For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. 

###### 8 
Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, _and_ our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. 

###### 9 
For all our days are past in thine anger: we have spent our years as a thought. 

###### 10 
The time of our life _is_ threescore years and ten, and if they be of strength, fourscore years: yet their strength _is_ but labor and sorrow: for it is cut off quickly, and we flee away. 

###### 11 
Who knoweth the power of thy wrath? for according to thy fear _is_ thine anger. 

###### 12 
Teach us so to number our days, that we may apply _our_ hearts unto wisdom. 

###### 13 
Return (O Lord, how long?) and be pacified toward thy servants. 

###### 14 
Fill us with thy mercy in the morning: so shall we rejoice and be glad all our days? 

###### 15 
Comfort us according to the days that thou hast afflicted us, _and according_ to the years that we have seen evil. 

###### 16 
Let thy work be seen toward thy servants, and thy glory upon their children. 

###### 17 
And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us, and direct thou the work of our hands upon us, even direct the work of our hands.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 89|← 19 - Psalms 89]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 91|19 - Psalms 91 →]])
