# 19 - Psalms 94

(previous:: [[Ps 93|← 19 - Psalms 93]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 95|19 - Psalms 95 →]])

***


###### 1 
O Lord God the avenger, O God the avenger, show thyself clearly. 

###### 2 
Exalt thyself, O Judge of the world, _and_ render a reward to the proud. 

###### 3 
Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph? 

###### 4 
They prate _and_ speak fiercely: all the workers of iniquity vaunt themselves. 

###### 5 
They smite down thy people, O Lord, and trouble thine heritage. 

###### 6 
They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless. 

###### 7 
Yet they say, The Lord shall not see: neither will the God of Jacob regard it. 

###### 8 
Understand, ye unwise among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise? 

###### 9 
He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? or he that formed the eye, shall he not see? 

###### 10 
Or he that chastiseth the nations, shall he not correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, _shall he not know_? 

###### 11 
The Lord knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity. 

###### 12 
Blessed _is_ the man whom thou chastisest, O Lord, and teachest him in thy Law, 

###### 13 
That thou mayest give him rest from the days of evil, while the pit is dug for the wicked. 

###### 14 
Surely the Lord will not fail his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. 

###### 15 
For judgment shall return to justice, and all the upright in heart _shall follow_ after it. 

###### 16 
Who will rise up with me against the wicked? _or_ who will take my part against the workers of iniquity? 

###### 17 
If the Lord had not helped me, my soul had almost dwelt in silence. 

###### 18 
When I said, My foot slideth, thy mercy, O Lord, stayed me. 

###### 19 
In the multitude of my thoughts in mine heart, thy comforts have rejoiced my soul. 

###### 20 
Hath the throne of iniquity fellowship with thee, which forgeth wrong for a Law? 

###### 21 
They gather them together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. 

###### 22 
But the Lord is my refuge, and my God _is_ the rock of mine hope. 

###### 23 
And he will recompense them their wickedness, and destroy them in their own malice, _yea_, the Lord our God shall destroy them.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 93|← 19 - Psalms 93]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 95|19 - Psalms 95 →]])
