# 19 - Psalms 91

(previous:: [[Ps 90|← 19 - Psalms 90]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 92|19 - Psalms 92 →]])

***


###### 1 
Who so dwelleth in the secret of the most High, shall abide in the shadow of the Almighty. 

###### 2 
I will say unto the Lord, O my hope, and my fortress: _he is_ my God, in him will I trust. 

###### 3 
Surely I will deliver thee from the snare of the hunter, _and_ from the noisome pestilence. 

###### 4 
He will cover thee under his wings, and thou shalt be sure under his feathers: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. 

###### 5 
Thou shalt not be afraid of the fear of the night: _nor_ of the arrow that flieth by day: 

###### 6 
_Nor_ of the pestilence that walketh in the darkness: _nor_ of the plague that destroyeth at noon day. 

###### 7 
A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand, _but_ it shall not come near thee. 

###### 8 
Doubtless with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. 

###### 9 
For thou _hast said_, The Lord _is_ mine hope: thou hast set the most High for thy refuge. 

###### 10 
There shall none evil come unto thee, neither shall any plague come near thy tabernacle. 

###### 11 
For he shall give his Angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. 

###### 12 
They shall bear thee in their hands, that thou hurt not thy foot against a stone. 

###### 13 
Thou shalt walk upon the lion and asp: the young lion, and the dragon shalt thou tread under feet. 

###### 14 
Because he hath loved me, therefore will I deliver him: I will exalt him because he hath known my Name. 

###### 15 
He shall call upon me, and I will hear him: I will be with him in trouble: I will deliver him, and glorify him. 

###### 16 
With long life will I satisfy him, and show him my salvation.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 90|← 19 - Psalms 90]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 92|19 - Psalms 92 →]])
