# 19 - Psalms 92

(previous:: [[Ps 91|← 19 - Psalms 91]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 93|19 - Psalms 93 →]])

***


###### 1 
It is a good thing to praise the Lord, and to sing unto thy Name, O most High, 

###### 2 
To declare thy loving kindness in the morning, and thy truth in the night, 

###### 3 
Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the viol, with the song upon the harp. 

###### 4 
For thou Lord, hast made me glad by thy works, _and_ I will rejoice in the works of thine hands. 

###### 5 
O Lord, how glorious are thy works! _and_ thy thoughts are very deep. 

###### 6 
An unwise man knoweth it not, and a fool doth not understand this, 

###### 7 
(When the wicked grow as the grass, and all the workers of wickedness do flourish) that they shall be destroyed forever. 

###### 8 
But thou, O Lord, art most High forevermore. 

###### 9 
For lo, thine enemies, O Lord: for lo, thine enemies shall perish: all the workers of iniquity shall be destroyed. 

###### 10 
But thou shalt exalt mine horn, like the unicorns, _and_ I shall be anointed with fresh oil. 

###### 11 
Mine eye also shall see _my desire_ against mine enemies: and mine ears shall hear _my wish_ against the wicked, that rise up against me. 

###### 12 
The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, _and_ shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 

###### 13 
Such as be planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courts of our God. 

###### 14 
They shall still bring forth fruit in _their_ age: they shall be fat and flourishing, 

###### 15 
To declare that the Lord my rock is righteous, and that none iniquity _is_ in him.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 91|← 19 - Psalms 91]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 93|19 - Psalms 93 →]])
