# 12 - 2 Kings 22

(previous:: [[2 Kgs 21|← 12 - 2 Kings 21]]) | (up:: [[12 - 2 Kings]]) | (next:: [[2 Kgs 23|12 - 2 Kings 23 →]])

***


###### 1 
Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned one and thirty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Jedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozkath. 

###### 2 
And he did uprightly in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the ways of David his father, and bowed neither to the right hand, nor to the left. 

###### 3 
¶ And in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah the son of Meshullam the chancellor, to the house of the Lord, saying, 

###### 4 
Go up to Hilkiah the high Priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the people. 

###### 5 
And let them deliver it into the hand of them that do the work, and have the oversight of the house of the Lord, let them give it to them that work in the house of the Lord, to repair the decayed places of the house: 

###### 6 
_To wit_, unto the artificers and carpenters, and masons, and to buy timber, and hewed stone to repair the house. 

###### 7 
Howbeit, let no reckoning be made with them of the money, that is delivered into their hand: for they deal faithfully. 

###### 8 
And Hilkiah the high Priest said unto Shaphan the chancellor, I have found the book of the Law in the house of the Lord: and Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it. 

###### 9 
So Shaphan the chancellor came to the king, and brought him word again, and said, Thy servants have gathered the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it unto the hands of them that do the work, and have the oversight of the house of the Lord. 

###### 10 
Also Shaphan the chancellor showed the king, saying, Hilkiah the Priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the King. 

###### 11 
And when the king had heard the words of the book of the Law, he rent his clothes. 

###### 12 
Therefore the king commanded Hilkiah the Priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Michaiah, and Shaphan the chancellor, and Asahiah the king's servant, saying, 

###### 13 
Go ye _and_ inquire of the Lord for me and for the people, and for all Judah concerning the words of this book that is found: for great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book, to do according unto all that which is written therein for us. 

###### 14 
¶ So Hilkiah the Priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asahiah went unto Huldah the Prophetess the wife of Shallum, the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas keeper of the wardrobe: (and she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college) and they communed with her. 

###### 15 
And she answered them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Tell the man that sent you to me, 

###### 16 
Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and on the inhabitants thereof, _even_ all the words of the book which the king of Judah hath read, 

###### 17 
Because they have forsaken me, and have burnt incense unto other gods, to anger me with all the works of their hands: my wrath also shall be kindled against this place, and shall not be quenched: 

###### 18 
But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, The words that thou hast heard, _shall come to pass._ 

###### 19 
_But_ because thine heart did melt, and thou hast humbled thyself before the Lord when thou heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants of the same, _to wit_, that it should be destroyed and accursed, and hast rent thy clothes, and wept before me, I have also heard it, saith the Lord. 

###### 20 
Behold therefore, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be put in thy grave in peace, and thine eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. Thus they brought the king word again.

***

(previous:: [[2 Kgs 21|← 12 - 2 Kings 21]]) | (up:: [[12 - 2 Kings]]) | (next:: [[2 Kgs 23|12 - 2 Kings 23 →]])
