# 12 - 2 Kings 14

(previous:: [[2 Kgs 13|← 12 - 2 Kings 13]]) | (up:: [[12 - 2 Kings]]) | (next:: [[2 Kgs 15|12 - 2 Kings 15 →]])

***


###### 1 
The second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, reigned Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah. 

###### 2 
He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name _was_ Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. 

###### 3 
And he did uprightly in the sight of the Lord, yet not like David his father, _but_ did according to all that Joash his father had done. 

###### 4 
Notwithstanding the high places were not taken away: _for_ as yet the people did sacrifice, and burnt incense in the high places. 

###### 5 
¶ And when the kingdom was confirmed in his hand, he slew his servants which had killed the king his father. 

###### 6 
But the children of those that did slay _him,_ he slew not, according unto that which is written in the book of the Law of Moses, wherein the Lord commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children put to death for the fathers: but every man shall be put to death for his own sin. 

###### 7 
He slew _also_ of Edom in the valley of salt, ten thousand, and took _the city_ of Sela by war, and called the name thereof Joktheel unto this day. 

###### 8 
¶ Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu king of Israel, saying, Come, let us see one another in the face. 

###### 9 
Then Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thistle that is in Lebanon, sent to the Cedar that is in Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and the wild beast that was in Lebanon, went and trode down the thistle. 

###### 10 
_Because_ thou hast smitten Edom, thine heart hath made thee proud: brag of glory, and tarry at home. Why doest thou provoke to _thine_ hurt, that thou shouldest fall, and Judah with thee? 

###### 11 
But Amaziah would not hear: therefore Jehoash king of Israel went up: and he and Amaziah king of Judah saw one another in the face at Beth Shemesh which is in Judah. 

###### 12 
And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled every man to their tents. 

###### 13 
But Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah at Beth Shemesh, and came to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits. 

###### 14 
And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the king's house, and the children that were in hostage, and returned to Samaria. 

###### 15 
Concerning the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his valiant deeds, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 

###### 16 
And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried at Samaria among the kings of Israel: and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead. 

###### 17 
¶ And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah, lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel, fifteen years. 

###### 18 
Concerning the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? 

###### 19 
But they wrought treason against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there. 

###### 20 
And they brought him on horses, and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David. 

###### 21 
Then all the people of Judah took Azariah which was sixteen years old, and made him king for his father Amaziah. 

###### 22 
He built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after that the king slept with his fathers. 

###### 23 
¶ In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah, was Jeroboam the son of Joash made king over Israel in Samaria, _and reigned_ one and forty years. 

###### 24 
And he did evil in the sight of the Lord: _for_ he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which made Israel to sin. 

###### 25 
He restored the coast of Israel, from the entering of Hamath, unto the sea of the wilderness, according to the word of the Lord God of Israel, which he spake by his servant Jonah the son of Amittai the Prophet, which was of Gath Hepher. 

###### 26 
For the Lord saw the exceedingly bitter affliction of Israel, so that there was none shut up, nor any left, neither yet any that could help Israel. 

###### 27 
Yet the Lord had not decreed to put out the name of Israel from under the heaven: therefore he preserved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash. 

###### 28 
Concerning the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his valiant deeds, _and_ how he fought, and how he restored Damascus, and Hamath to Judah in Israel, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel? 

###### 29 
So Jeroboam slept with his fathers, _even_ with the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son reigned in his stead.

***

(previous:: [[2 Kgs 13|← 12 - 2 Kings 13]]) | (up:: [[12 - 2 Kings]]) | (next:: [[2 Kgs 15|12 - 2 Kings 15 →]])
