# 13 - 1 Chronicles 18

(previous:: [[1 Chr 17|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 17]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 19|13 - 1 Chronicles 19 →]])

***


###### 1 
Now after this it came about that David defeated the Philistines and subdued them and took Gath and its towns from the hand of the Philistines. 

###### 2 
He defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David, bringing tribute. 

###### 3 
David also defeated Hadadezer king of Zobah _as far as_ Hamath, as he went to establish his rule to the Euphrates River. 

###### 4 
David took from him 1,000 chariots and 7,000 horsemen and 20,000 foot soldiers, and David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved _enough_ of them for 100 chariots. 

###### 5 
When the Arameans of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David killed 22,000 men of the Arameans. 

###### 6 
Then David put _garrisons_ among the Arameans of Damascus; and the Arameans became servants to David, bringing tribute. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 

###### 7 
David took the shields of gold which were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem. 

###### 8 
Also from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadadezer, David took a very large amount of bronze, with which Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the bronze utensils. 

###### 9 
Now when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had defeated all the army of Hadadezer king of Zobah, 

###### 10 
he sent Hadoram his son to King David to greet him and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and had defeated him; for Hadadezer had been at war with Tou. And _Hadoram brought_ all kinds of articles of gold and silver and bronze. 

###### 11 
King David also dedicated these to the LORD with the silver and the gold which he had carried away from all the nations: from Edom, Moab, the sons of Ammon, the Philistines, and from Amalek. 

###### 12 
Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah defeated 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt. 

###### 13 
Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And the LORD helped David wherever he went. 

###### 14 
So David reigned over all Israel; and he administered justice and righteousness for all his people. 

###### 15 
Joab the son of Zeruiah _was_ over the army, and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud _was_ recorder; 

###### 16 
and Zadok the son of Ahitub and Abimelech the son of Abiathar _were_ priests, and Shavsha _was_ secretary; 

###### 17 
and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada _was_ over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and the sons of David _were_ chiefs at the king's side.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 17|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 17]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 19|13 - 1 Chronicles 19 →]])
