# 13 - 1 Chronicles 27

(previous:: [[1 Chr 26|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 28|13 - 1 Chronicles 28 →]])

***


###### 1 
Now _this is_ the enumeration of the sons of Israel, the heads of fathers' _households_, the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all the affairs of the divisions which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, each division _numbering_ 24,000: 

###### 2 
Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel had charge of the first division for the first month; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 3 
_He was_ from the sons of Perez, _and was_ chief of all the commanders of the army for the first month. 

###### 4 
Dodai the Ahohite and his division had charge of the division for the second month, Mikloth _being_ the chief officer; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 5 
The third commander of the army for the third month _was_ Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest, _as_ chief; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 6 
This Benaiah _was_ the mighty man of the thirty, and had charge of thirty; and over his division was Ammizabad his son. 

###### 7 
The fourth for the fourth month _was_ Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 8 
The fifth for the fifth month _was_ the commander Shamhuth the Izrahite; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 9 
The sixth for the sixth month _was_ Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 10 
The seventh for the seventh month _was_ Helez the Pelonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 11 
The eighth for the eighth month _was_ Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zerahites; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 12 
The ninth for the ninth month _was_ Abiezer the Anathothite of the Benjamites; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 13 
The tenth for the tenth month _was_ Maharai the Netophathite of the Zerahites; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 14 
The eleventh for the eleventh month _was_ Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sons of Ephraim; and in his division _were_ 24,000. 

###### 15 
The twelfth for the twelfth month _was_ Heldai the Netophathite of Othniel; and in his division _were_ 24,000.Chief Officers of the Tribes 

###### 16 
Now in charge of the tribes of Israel: chief officer for the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri; for the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah; 

###### 17 
for Levi, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel; for Aaron, Zadok; 

###### 18 
for Judah, Elihu, _one_ of David's brothers; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael; 

###### 19 
for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel; 

###### 20 
for the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah; 

###### 21 
for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner; 

###### 22 
for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These _were_ the princes of the tribes of Israel. 

###### 23 
But David did not count those twenty years of age and under, because the LORD had said He would multiply Israel as the stars of heaven. 

###### 24 
Joab the son of Zeruiah had begun to count _them_, but did not finish; and because of this, wrath came upon Israel, and the number was not included in the account of the chronicles of King David.Various Overseers 

###### 25 
Now Azmaveth the son of Adiel had charge of the king's storehouses. And Jonathan the son of Uzziah had charge of the storehouses in the country, in the cities, in the villages and in the towers. 

###### 26 
Ezri the son of Chelub had charge of the agricultural workers who tilled the soil. 

###### 27 
Shimei the Ramathite had charge of the vineyards; and Zabdi the Shiphmite had charge of the produce of the vineyards _stored_ in the wine cellars. 

###### 28 
Baal-hanan the Gederite had charge of the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephelah; and Joash had charge of the stores of oil. 

###### 29 
Shitrai the Sharonite had charge of the cattle which were grazing in Sharon; and Shaphat the son of Adlai had charge of the cattle in the valleys. 

###### 30 
Obil the Ishmaelite had charge of the camels; and Jehdeiah the Meronothite had charge of the donkeys. 

###### 31 
Jaziz the Hagrite had charge of the flocks. All these were overseers of the property which belonged to King David.Counselors 

###### 32 
Also Jonathan, David's uncle, _was_ a counselor, a man of understanding, and a scribe; and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni tutored the king's sons. 

###### 33 
Ahithophel _was_ counselor to the king; and Hushai the Archite _was_ the king's friend. 

###### 34 
Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar succeeded Ahithophel; and Joab was the commander of the king's army.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 26|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 28|13 - 1 Chronicles 28 →]])
