# Psalms 115

(previous:: [[Ps 114|← Psalms 114]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 116|Psalms 116 →]])

***


###### 1 
Not to us, Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory because of your faithful love, because of your truth. 

###### 2 
Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" 

###### 3 
Our God is in heaven and does whatever he pleases. 

###### 4 
Their idols are silver and gold, made by human hands. 

###### 5 
They have mouths but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see. 

###### 6 
They have ears but cannot hear, noses, but cannot smell. 

###### 7 
They have hands but cannot feel, feet, but cannot walk. They cannot make a sound with their throats. 

###### 8 
Those who make them are just like them, as are all who trust in them. 

###### 9 
Israel, trust in the Lord! He is their help and shield. 

###### 10 
House of Aaron, trust in the Lord! He is their help and shield. 

###### 11 
You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord! He is their help and shield. 

###### 12 
The Lord remembers us and will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron; 

###### 13 
he will bless those who fear the Lord-- small and great alike. 

###### 14 
May the Lord add to your numbers, both yours and your children's. 

###### 15 
May you be blessed by the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth. 

###### 16 
The heavens are the Lord's, but the earth he has given to the human race. 

###### 17 
It is not the dead who praise the Lord, nor any of those descending into the silence of death. 

###### 18 
But we will bless the Lord, both now and forever. Hallelujah!

***

(previous:: [[Ps 114|← Psalms 114]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 116|Psalms 116 →]])
