# Psalms 132

(previous:: [[Ps 131|← Psalms 131]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 133|Psalms 133 →]])

***


###### 1 
Lord, remember David and all the hardships he endured, 

###### 2 
and how he swore an oath to the Lord, making a vow to the Mighty One of Jacob: 

###### 3 
"I will not enter my house or get into my bed, 

###### 4 
I will not allow my eyes to sleep or my eyelids to slumber 

###### 5 
until I find a place for the Lord, a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob." 

###### 6 
We heard of the ark in Ephrathah; we found it in the fields of Jaar. 

###### 7 
Let's go to his dwelling place; let's worship at his footstool. 

###### 8 
Rise up, Lord, come to your resting place, you and your powerful ark. 

###### 9 
May your priests be clothed with righteousness, and may your faithful people shout for joy. 

###### 10 
For the sake of your servant David, do not reject your anointed one. 

###### 11 
The Lord swore an oath to David, a promise he will not abandon: "I will set one of your offspring on your throne. 

###### 12 
If your sons keep my covenant and my decrees that I will teach them, their sons will also sit on your throne forever." 

###### 13 
For the Lord has chosen Zion; he has desired it for his home: 

###### 14 
"This is my resting place forever; I will make my home here because I have desired it. 

###### 15 
I will abundantly bless its food; I will satisfy its needy with bread. 

###### 16 
I will clothe its priests with salvation, and its faithful people will shout for joy. 

###### 17 
There I will make a horn grow for David; I have prepared a lamp for my anointed one. 

###### 18 
I will clothe his enemies with shame, but the crown he wears will be glorious."

***

(previous:: [[Ps 131|← Psalms 131]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 133|Psalms 133 →]])
