# Psalms 50

(previous:: [[Ps 49|← Psalms 49]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 51|Psalms 51 →]])

***


###### 1 
The Mighty One, God, the Lord, speaks; he summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. 

###### 2 
From Zion, the perfection of beauty, God appears in radiance. 

###### 3 
Our God is coming; he will not be silent! Devouring fire precedes him, and a storm rages around him. 

###### 4 
On high, he summons heaven and earth in order to judge his people: 

###### 5 
"Gather my faithful ones to me, those who made a covenant with me by sacrifice." 

###### 6 
The heavens proclaim his righteousness, for God is the Judge._Selah_ 

###### 7 
"Listen, my people, and I will speak; I will testify against you, Israel. I am God, your God. 

###### 8 
I do not rebuke you for your sacrifices or for your burnt offerings, which are continually before me. 

###### 9 
I will not take a bull from your household or male goats from your pens, 

###### 10 
for every animal of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills. 

###### 11 
I know every bird of the mountains, and the creatures of the field are mine. 

###### 12 
If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and everything in it is mine. 

###### 13 
Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 

###### 14 
Offer a thanksgiving sacrifice to God, and pay your vows to the Most High. 

###### 15 
Call on me in a day of trouble; I will rescue you, and you will honor me." 

###### 16 
But God says to the wicked: "What right do you have to recite my statutes and to take my covenant on your lips? 

###### 17 
You hate instruction and fling my words behind you. 

###### 18 
When you see a thief, you make friends with him, and you associate with adulterers. 

###### 19 
You unleash your mouth for evil and harness your tongue for deceit. 

###### 20 
You sit, maligning your brother, slandering your mother's son. 

###### 21 
You have done these things, and I kept silent; you thought I was just like you. But I will rebuke you and lay out the case before you. 

###### 22 
"Understand this, you who forget God, or I will tear you apart, and there will be no one to rescue you. 

###### 23 
Whoever offers a thanksgiving sacrifice honors me, and whoever orders his conduct, I will show him the salvation of God."

***

(previous:: [[Ps 49|← Psalms 49]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 51|Psalms 51 →]])
