# Psalms 59

(previous:: [[Ps 58|← Psalms 58]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 60|Psalms 60 →]])

***


###### 1 
Rescue me from my enemies, my God; protect me from those who rise up against me. 

###### 2 
Rescue me from evildoers, and save me from men of bloodshed. 

###### 3 
Because look, Lord, they set an ambush for me. Powerful men attack me, but not because of any sin or rebellion of mine. 

###### 4 
For no fault of mine, they run and take up a position. Awake to help me, and take notice. 

###### 5 
Lord God of Armies, you are the God of Israel. Rise up to punish all the nations; do not show favor to any wicked traitors._Selah_ 

###### 6 
They return at evening, snarling like dogs and prowling around the city. 

###### 7 
Look, they spew from their mouths-- sharp words from their lips. "For who," they say, "will hear?" 

###### 8 
But you laugh at them, Lord; you ridicule all the nations. 

###### 9 
I will keep watch for you, my strength, because God is my stronghold. 

###### 10 
My faithful God will come to meet me; God will let me look down on my adversaries. 

###### 11 
Do not kill them; otherwise, my people will forget. By your power, make them homeless wanderers and bring them down, Lord, our shield. 

###### 12 
For the sin of their mouths and the words of their lips, let them be caught in their pride. They utter curses and lies. 

###### 13 
Consume them in fury; consume them until they are gone. Then people will know throughout the earth that God rules over Jacob._Selah_ 

###### 14 
And they return at evening, snarling like dogs and prowling around the city. 

###### 15 
They scavenge for food; they growl if they are not satisfied. 

###### 16 
But I will sing of your strength and will joyfully proclaim your faithful love in the morning. For you have been a stronghold for me, a refuge in my day of trouble. 

###### 17 
To you, my strength, I sing praises, because God is my stronghold-- my faithful God.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 58|← Psalms 58]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 60|Psalms 60 →]])
