# Psalms 94

(previous:: [[Ps 93|← Psalms 93]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 95|Psalms 95 →]])

***


###### 1 
Lord, God of vengeance-- God of vengeance, shine! 

###### 2 
Rise up, Judge of the earth; repay the proud what they deserve. 

###### 3 
Lord, how long will the wicked-- how long will the wicked celebrate? 

###### 4 
They pour out arrogant words; all the evildoers boast. 

###### 5 
Lord, they crush your people; they oppress your heritage. 

###### 6 
They kill the widow and the resident alien and murder the fatherless. 

###### 7 
They say, "The Lord doesn't see it. The God of Jacob doesn't pay attention." 

###### 8 
Pay attention, you stupid people! Fools, when will you be wise? 

###### 9 
Can the one who shaped the ear not hear, the one who formed the eye not see? 

###### 10 
The one who instructs nations, the one who teaches mankind knowledge-- does he not discipline? 

###### 11 
The Lord knows the thoughts of mankind; they are futile. 

###### 12 
Lord, how happy is anyone you discipline and teach from your law 

###### 13 
to give him relief from troubled times until a pit is dug for the wicked. 

###### 14 
The Lord will not leave his people or abandon his heritage, 

###### 15 
for the administration of justice will again be righteous, and all the upright in heart will follow it. 

###### 16 
Who stands up for me against the wicked? Who takes a stand for me against evildoers? 

###### 17 
If the Lord had not been my helper, I would soon rest in the silence of death. 

###### 18 
If I say, "My foot is slipping," your faithful love will support me, Lord. 

###### 19 
When I am filled with cares, your comfort brings me joy. 

###### 20 
Can a corrupt throne be your ally, a throne that makes evil laws? 

###### 21 
They band together against the life of the righteous and condemn the innocent to death. 

###### 22 
But the Lord is my refuge; my God is the rock of my protection. 

###### 23 
He will pay them back for their sins and destroy them for their evil. The Lord our God will destroy them.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 93|← Psalms 93]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 95|Psalms 95 →]])
