# Psalms 96

(previous:: [[Ps 95|← Psalms 95]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 97|Psalms 97 →]])

***


###### 1 
Sing a new song to the Lord; let the whole earth sing to the Lord. 

###### 2 
Sing to the Lord, bless his name; proclaim his salvation from day to day. 

###### 3 
Declare his glory among the nations, his wondrous works among all peoples. 

###### 4 
For the Lord is great and is highly praised; he is feared above all gods. 

###### 5 
For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens. 

###### 6 
Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. 

###### 7 
Ascribe to the Lord, you families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. 

###### 8 
Ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name; bring an offering and enter his courts. 

###### 9 
Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness; let the whole earth tremble before him. 

###### 10 
Say among the nations, "The Lord reigns. The world is firmly established; it cannot be shaken. He judges the peoples fairly." 

###### 11 
Let the heavens be glad and the earth rejoice; let the sea and all that fills it resound. 

###### 12 
Let the fields and everything in them celebrate. Then all the trees of the forest will shout for joy 

###### 13 
before the Lord, for he is coming-- for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with his faithfulness.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 95|← Psalms 95]]) | (up:: [[Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 97|Psalms 97 →]])
