# 14 - 2 Chronicles 31

(previous:: [[2 Chr 30|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 30]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 32|14 - 2 Chronicles 32 →]])

***


###### 1 
Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah, broke the pillars in pieces, cut down the Asherim and pulled down the high places and the altars throughout all Judah and Benjamin, as well as in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the sons of Israel returned to their cities, each to his possession. 

###### 2 
And Hezekiah appointed the divisions of the priests and the Levites by their divisions, each according to his service, _both_ the priests and the Levites, for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister and to give thanks and to praise in the gates of the camp of the LORD.Reforms Continued 

###### 3 
_He_ also _appointed_ the king's portion of his goods for the burnt offerings, _namely_, for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths and for the new moons and for the fixed festivals, as it is written in the law of the LORD. 

###### 4 
Also he commanded the people who lived in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and the Levites, that they might devote themselves to the law of the LORD. 

###### 5 
As soon as the order spread, the sons of Israel provided in abundance the first fruits of grain, new wine, oil, honey and of all the produce of the field; and they brought in abundantly the tithe of all. 

###### 6 
The sons of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of sacred gifts which were consecrated to the LORD their God, and placed _them_ in heaps. 

###### 7 
In the third month they began to make the heaps, and finished _them_ by the seventh month. 

###### 8 
When Hezekiah and the rulers came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD and His people Israel. 

###### 9 
Then Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 

###### 10 
Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok said to him, "Since the contributions began to be brought into the house of the LORD, we have had enough to eat with plenty left over, for the LORD has blessed His people, and this great quantity is left over." 

###### 11 
Then Hezekiah commanded _them_ to prepare rooms in the house of the LORD, and they prepared _them_. 

###### 12 
They faithfully brought in the contributions and the tithes and the consecrated things; and Conaniah the Levite _was_ the officer in charge of them and his brother Shimei _was_ second. 

###### 13 
Jehiel, Azaziah, Nahath, Asahel, Jerimoth, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismachiah, Mahath and Benaiah _were_ overseers under the authority of Conaniah and Shimei his brother by the appointment of King Hezekiah, and Azariah _was_ the _chief_ officer of the house of God. 

###### 14 
Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the keeper of the eastern _gate, was_ over the freewill offerings of God, to apportion the contributions for the LORD and the most holy things. 

###### 15 
Under his authority _were_ Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaiah, Amariah and Shecaniah in the cities of the priests, to distribute faithfully _their portions_ to their brothers by divisions, whether great or small, 

###### 16 
without regard to their genealogical enrollment, to the males from thirty years old and upward--everyone who entered the house of the LORD for his daily obligations--for their work in their duties according to their divisions; 

###### 17 
as well as the priests who were enrolled genealogically according to their fathers' households, and the Levites from twenty years old and upwards, by their duties _and_ their divisions. 

###### 18 
The genealogical enrollment _included_ all their little children, their wives, their sons and their daughters, for the whole assembly, for they consecrated themselves faithfully in holiness. 

###### 19 
Also for the sons of Aaron the priests _who were_ in the pasture lands of their cities, or in each and every city, _there were_ men who were designated by name to distribute portions to every male among the priests and to everyone genealogically enrolled among the Levites. 

###### 20 
Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah; and he did what _was_ good, right and true before the LORD his God. 

###### 21 
Every work which he began in the service of the house of God in law and in commandment, seeking his God, he did with all his heart and prospered.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 30|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 30]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 32|14 - 2 Chronicles 32 →]])
