# 10 - 2 Samuel 24

(previous:: [[2 Sam 23|← 10 - 2 Samuel 23]]) | (up:: [[10 - 2 Samuel]])

***


###### 1 
And the wrath of the Lord was again kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them, in that he said, Go, number Israel and Judah. 

###### 2 
For the King said to Joab the captain of the host, which was with him, Go speedily now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the number of the people. 

###### 3 
And Joab said unto the King, The Lord thy God increase the people an hundredfold more than they be, and that the eyes of my lord the King may see it: but why doth my lord the King desire this thing? 

###### 4 
Notwithstanding the King's word prevailed against Joab and against the captains of the host: therefore Joab and the captains of the host went out from the presence of the King to number the people of Israel. 

###### 5 
¶ And they passed over Jordan, and pitched in Aroer at the right side of the city that is in the midst of the valley of Gad, and toward Jazer. 

###### 6 
Then they came to Gilead, and to Tahtim Hodshi, so they came to Dan Jaan, and so about to Sidon, 

###### 7 
And came to the fortress of Tyre and to all the cities of the Hivites and of the Canaanites, and went toward the South of Judah, even to Beersheba. 

###### 8 
¶ So when they had gone about all the land, they returned to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days. 

###### 9 
¶ And Joab delivered the number _and_ sum of the people unto the King: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand strong men that drew swords, and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men. 

###### 10 
Then David's heart smote him, after that he had numbered the people: and David said unto the Lord, I have sinned exceedingly, in that I have done: therefore now, Lord, I beseech thee, take away the trespass of thy servant: for I have done very foolishly. 

###### 11 
¶ And when David was up in the morning, the word of the Lord came unto the Prophet Gad David's Seer, saying, 

###### 12 
Go, and say unto David, Thus saith the Lord, I offer thee three things, choose thee which of them I shall do unto thee. 

###### 13 
So Gad came to David, and showed him, and said unto him, Wilt thou that seven years famine come upon thee in thy land, or wilt thou flee three months before thine enemies, they following thee, or that there be three days pestilence in my land? now advise thee, and see, what answer I shall give to him that sent me. 

###### 14 
¶ And David said unto Gad, I am in a wonderful strait: let us fall now into the hand of the Lord, (for his mercies _are_ great) and let me not fall into the hand of man. 

###### 15 
So the Lord sent a pestilence in Israel from the morning even unto the time appointed: and there died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba seventy thousand men. 

###### 16 
And when the Angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to destroy it, the Lord repented of the evil, and said to the Angel, that destroyed the people, It is sufficient, hold now thine hand. And the Angel of the Lord was by the threshing place of Araunah the Jebusite. 

###### 17 
And David spake unto the Lord (when he saw the Angel that smote the people) and said, Behold, I have sinned, yea, I have done wickedly, but these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray, thee, be against me and against my father's house. 

###### 18 
¶ So Gad came the same day to David, and said unto him, Go up, rear an altar unto the Lord in the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite. 

###### 19 
And David (according to the saying of Gad) went up, as the Lord had commanded. 

###### 20 
And Araunah looked, and saw the king and his servants coming toward him, and Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the King on his face to the ground. 

###### 21 
And Araunah said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? Then David answered, to buy the threshing floor of thee for to build an altar unto the Lord, that the plague may cease from the people. 

###### 22 
Then Araunah said unto David, Let my lord the King take and offer what seemeth him good in his eyes: behold the oxen for the burnt offering, and chariots, and the instruments of the oxen for wood. 

###### 23 
(All these things did Araunah _as_ a king give unto the king: and Araunah said unto the king, The Lord thy God be favorable unto thee.) 

###### 24 
Then the king said unto Araunah, Not so, but I will buy it of thee at a price, and will not offer burnt offering unto the Lord my God of that which doth cost me nothing. So David bought the threshing floor, and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver. 

###### 25 
And David built there an altar unto the Lord, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and the Lord was appeased toward the land, and the plague ceased from Israel.

***

(previous:: [[2 Sam 23|← 10 - 2 Samuel 23]]) | (up:: [[10 - 2 Samuel]])
