# 14 - 2 Chronicles 19

(previous:: [[2 Chr 18|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 18]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 20|14 - 2 Chronicles 20 →]])

***


###### 1 
And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned safe to his house in Jerusalem. 

###### 2 
And Jehu the son of Hanani the Seer went out to meet him, and said to King Jehoshaphat, Wouldest thou help the wicked, and love them that hate the Lord? therefore for this thing the wrath of the Lord is upon thee. 

###### 3 
Nevertheless good things are found in thee, because thou hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine heart to seek God. 

###### 4 
¶ So Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem, and returned and went through the people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them again unto the Lord God of their fathers. 

###### 5 
And he set judges in the land throughout all the strong cities of Judah, city by city, 

###### 6 
And said to the judges, Take heed what ye do: for ye execute not the judgments of man, but of the Lord, and _he will be_ with you in the cause _and_ judgment. 

###### 7 
Wherefore now let the fear of the Lord be upon you: take heed, and do it: for there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, neither respect of persons, nor receiving of reward. 

###### 8 
Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites, and of the Priests and of the chief of the families of Israel, for the judgment and cause of the Lord: and they returned to Jerusalem. 

###### 9 
And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the Lord faithfully and with a perfect heart. 

###### 10 
And in every cause that shall come to you of your brethren that dwell in your cities, between blood and blood, between law and precept, statutes and judgments, _ye shall judge them_ and admonish them that they trespass not against the Lord, that wrath come not upon you and upon your brethren. This shall ye do and trespass not. 

###### 11 
And behold, Amariah the Priest _shall be_ the chief over you in all matters of the Lord, and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, a ruler of the house of Judah, _shall be_ for all the King's affairs, and the Levites _shall be_ officers before you. Be of courage, and do it, and the Lord shall be with the good.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 18|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 18]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 20|14 - 2 Chronicles 20 →]])
