# 14 - 2 Chronicles 27

(previous:: [[2 Chr 26|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 28|14 - 2 Chronicles 28 →]])

***


###### 1 
Jotham _was_ five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name _was_ Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. 

###### 2 
And he did uprightly in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father Uzziah did, save that he entered not into the Temple of the Lord, and the people did yet corrupt _their ways. _ 

###### 3 
He built the high gate of the house of the Lord, and he built very much on the wall of the castle. 

###### 4 
Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the forests he built palaces and towers. 

###### 5 
And he fought with the kings of the children of Ammon, and prevailed against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year an hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley: this did the children of Ammon give him both in the second year and the third. 

###### 6 
So Jotham became mighty, because he directed his way before the Lord his God. 

###### 7 
Concerning the rest of the acts of Jotham and all his wars and his ways, lo, they are written in the book of the Kings of Israel, and Judah. 

###### 8 
He was five and twenty years old, when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. 

###### 9 
And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 26|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 28|14 - 2 Chronicles 28 →]])
