# 14 - 2 Chronicles 15

(previous:: [[2 Chr 14|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 14]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 16|14 - 2 Chronicles 16 →]])

***


###### 1 
Then the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Obed. 

###### 2 
And he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, O Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin, hear ye me, The Lord _is_ with you, while ye be with him: and if ye seek him, he will be found of you, but if ye forsake him, he will forsake you. 

###### 3 
Now for a long season Israel _hath been_ without the true God, and without Priest to teach, and without Law. 

###### 4 
But _whosoever_ returned in his affliction to the Lord God of Israel, and sought him, he was found of him. 

###### 5 
And in that time there _was_ no peace to him, that did go out and go in: but great troubles _were_ to all the inhabitants of the earth. 

###### 6 
For nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God troubled them with all adversity. 

###### 7 
Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your work shall have a reward. 

###### 8 
¶ And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Obed the Prophet, he was encouraged, and took away the abominations out of all the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had taken of mount Ephraim, and he renewed the altar of the Lord, that was before the porch of the Lord. 

###### 9 
And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with them out of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for there fell many to him out of Israel, when they saw that the Lord his God _was_ with him. 

###### 10 
So they assembled to Jerusalem in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa. 

###### 11 
And they offered unto the Lord the same time of the spoil _which_ they had brought, _even_ seven hundred bullocks, and seven thousand sheep. 

###### 12 
And they made a covenant to seek the Lord God of their fathers, with all their heart, and with all their soul. 

###### 13 
And whosoever will not seek the Lord God of Israel, shall be slain, whether he were small or great, man or woman. 

###### 14 
And they sware unto the Lord with a loud voice, and with shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets. 

###### 15 
And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn unto the Lord with all their heart, and sought him with a whole desire, and he was found of them. And the Lord gave them rest round about. 

###### 16 
¶ And King Asa deposed Maachah _his_ mother from her regency, because she had made an idol in a grove: and Asa brake down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook Kidron. 

###### 17 
But the high places were not taken away out of Israel: yet the heart of Asa was perfect all his days. 

###### 18 
Also he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicated, and that he had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels. 

###### 19 
And there was no war unto the five and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 14|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 14]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 16|14 - 2 Chronicles 16 →]])
