# 14 - 2 Chronicles 16

(previous:: [[2 Chr 15|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 15]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 17|14 - 2 Chronicles 17 →]])

***


###### 1 
In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa came Baasha king of Israel up against Judah, and built Ramah, to let none pass out or go in to Asa king of Judah. 

###### 2 
Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of the Lord, and of the king's house, and sent to Ben-Hadad king of Aram that dwelt at Damascus, saying, 

###### 3 
There _is_ a covenant between me and thee, and between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent thee silver and gold: come, break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me. 

###### 4 
And Ben-Hadad hearkened unto King Asa, and sent the captains of the army which he had, against the cities of Israel. And they smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abel Maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali. 

###### 5 
And when Baasha heard it, he left building of Ramah, and let his work cease. 

###### 6 
Then Asa the king took all Judah, and carried away the stones of Ramah and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha did build, and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah. 

###### 7 
¶ And at that same time Hanani the Seer came to Asa king of Judah, and said unto him, Because thou hast rested upon the king of Aram, and not rested in the Lord thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Aram escaped out of thine hand. 

###### 8 
The Ethiopians and the Lubim, were they not a great host with chariots and horsemen, exceedingly many? yet because thou didst rest upon the Lord, he delivered them into thine hand. 

###### 9 
For the eyes of the Lord behold all the earth, to show himself strong with them that are of perfect heart toward him: thou hast then done foolishly in this: therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars. 

###### 10 
Then Asa was wroth with the Seer, and put him into a prison: for he was displeased with him, because of this thing. And Asa oppressed _certain_ of the people at the same time. 

###### 11 
And behold, the acts of Asa first and last, lo, they are written in the book of the Kings of Judah and Israel. 

###### 12 
¶ And Asa in the nine and thirtieth year of his reign was diseased in his feet, _and_ his disease was extreme: yet he sought not the Lord in his disease, but to the Physicians. 

###### 13 
So Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth year of his reign. 

###### 14 
And they buried him in _one_ of his sepulchers, which he had made for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed, which they had filled with sweet odors and divers kinds _of spices_ made by the art of the Apothecary: and they burnt _odors_ for him with an exceeding great fire.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 15|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 15]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 17|14 - 2 Chronicles 17 →]])
