# 14 - 2 Chronicles 11

(previous:: [[2 Chr 10|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 10]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 12|14 - 2 Chronicles 12 →]])

***


###### 1 
And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the house of Judah and Benjamin ninescore thousand chosen men of war to fight against Israel, and to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam. 

###### 2 
But the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying, 

###### 3 
Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon King of Judah, and to all Israel that are in Judah and Benjamin, saying, 

###### 4 
Thus saith the Lord, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to his house: for this thing is done of me. They obeyed therefore the word of the Lord, and returned from going against Jeroboam. 

###### 5 
And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built strong cities in Judah. 

###### 6 
He built also Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa, 

###### 7 
And Beth Zur, and Sochoh, and Adullam, 

###### 8 
And Gath, Mareshah, and Ziph, 

###### 9 
And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah, 

###### 10 
And Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which were in Judah and Benjamin strong cities. 

###### 11 
And he repaired the strongholds and put captains in them, and store of vittles, and oil and wine. 

###### 12 
And in all cities he put shields and spears and made them exceedingly strong: so Judah and Benjamin were his. 

###### 13 
¶ And the Priests and the Levites that were in all Israel, resorted unto him out of all their coasts. 

###### 14 
For the Levites left their suburbs and their possessions, and came to Judah and to Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them out from ministering in the Priests' office unto the Lord. 

###### 15 
And he ordained him Priests for the high places, and for the devils and for the calves which he had made. 

###### 16 
And after the Levites there came to Jerusalem of all the tribes of Israel, such as set their hearts to seek the Lord God of Israel, to offer unto the Lord God of their fathers. 

###### 17 
So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon mighty, three years long: for three years they walked in the way of David and Solomon. 

###### 18 
¶ And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David to wife, _and_ Abihail the daughter of Eliah the son of Jesse, 

###### 19 
Which bare him sons Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham. 

###### 20 
And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom which bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith. 

###### 21 
And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and his concubines: for he took eighteen wives and threescore concubines, and begat eight and twenty sons, and threescore daughters. 

###### 22 
And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the chief ruler among his brethren: _for_ he thought to make him King. 

###### 23 
And he taught him: and dispersed all his sons throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin unto every strong city: and he gave them abundance of vittles, and desired many wives.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 10|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 10]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 12|14 - 2 Chronicles 12 →]])
