# 14 - 2 Chronicles 31

(previous:: [[2 Chr 30|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 30]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 32|14 - 2 Chronicles 32 →]])

***


###### 1 
And when all these things were finished, all Israel, that were found in the cities of Judah, went out and brake the images, and cut down the groves, and brake down the high places, and the altars throughout all Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, until they had made an end: afterward all the children of Israel returned every man to his possession, into their own cities. 

###### 2 
And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the Priests and Levites by their turns, every man according to his office, _both_ Priests and Levites for the burnt offering and peace offerings, to minister and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the tents of the Lord. 

###### 3 
(And the king's portion _was_ of his own substance for the burnt offerings, _even_ for the burnt offerings of the morning and of the evening, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths, and for the new moons and for the solemn feasts, as it is written in the Law of the Lord) 

###### 4 
He commanded also the people that dwelt in Jerusalem, to give a part to the Priests, and Levites, that they might be encouraged in the law of the Lord. 

###### 5 
¶ And when the commandment was spread, the children of Israel brought abundance of firstfruits, of corn, wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field, and the tithes of all things brought they abundantly. 

###### 6 
And the children of Israel and Judah that dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought the tithes of bullocks and sheep, and the holy tithes which were consecrated unto the Lord their God, and laid them on many heaps. 

###### 7 
In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month. 

###### 8 
¶ And when Hezekiah and the princes came, and saw the heaps, they blessed the Lord and his people Israel. 

###### 9 
And Hezekiah questioned with the Priests and the Levites concerning the heaps. 

###### 10 
And Azariah the chief Priest of the house of Zadok answered him, and said, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the Lord, we have eaten, and have been satisfied, and there is left in abundance: for the Lord hath blessed his people, and this abundance that is left. 

###### 11 
¶ And Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the Lord: and they prepared them, 

###### 12 
And carried in the firstfruits, and the tithes, and the dedicated things faithfully: and over them _was_ Conaniah the Levite the chief, and Shimei his brother the second. 

###### 13 
And Jehiel, and Azaziah and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah _were_ overseers by the appointment of Conaniah, and Shimei his brother, _and_ by the commandment of Hezekiah the King, and of Azariah the chief of the house of God. 

###### 14 
And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, porter toward the East, _was_ over the things that were willingly offered unto God, to distribute the oblations of the Lord, and the holy things that were consecrated. 

###### 15 
And at his hand _were_ Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shechaniah, in the cities of the Priests, to distribute with fidelity to their brethren by courses, both to the great and small, 

###### 16 
Their daily portion: beside their generation, being males from three years old and above, _even_ to all that entered into the house of the Lord to their office in their charge, according to their courses: 

###### 17 
Both to the generation of the Priests after the house of their fathers, and to the Levites from twenty years old and above, according to their charge in their courses: 

###### 18 
And to the generation of all their children, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters throughout all the Congregation: for by their fidelity are they partakers of the holy things. 

###### 19 
Also to the sons of Aaron, the Priests, _which were_ in the fields _and_ suburbs of their cities, in every city the men that were appointed by names, should give portions to all the males of the Priests, and to all the generation of the Levites. 

###### 20 
And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah, and did well, and uprightly, and truly before the Lord his God. 

###### 21 
And in all the works that he began for the service of the house of God, both in the Law and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 30|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 30]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 32|14 - 2 Chronicles 32 →]])
