# 09 - 1 Samuel 20

(previous:: [[1 Sam 19|← 09 - 1 Samuel 19]]) | (up:: [[09 - 1 Samuel]]) | (next:: [[1 Sam 21|09 - 1 Samuel 21 →]])

***


###### 1 
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what _is_ mine iniquity? and what sin have I committed before thy father, that he seeketh my life? 

###### 2 
And he said unto him, God forbid, thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing great nor small, but he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? he will not do it. 

###### 3 
And David swore again and said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes: therefore he thinketh, Jonathan shall not know it, lest he be sorry: but indeed, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death. 

###### 4 
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul requireth, that I will do unto thee. 

###### 5 
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the first day of the month, and I should sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the fields unto the third _day_ at even. 

###### 6 
If thy father make mention of me, then say, David asked leave of me, that he might go to Bethlehem to his own city: for there is a yearly sacrifice for all that family. 

###### 7 
And if he say thus, It is well, thy servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, be sure that wickedness is concluded of him. 

###### 8 
So shalt thou show mercy unto thy servant: for thou hast joined thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee, and if there be in me iniquity, slay thou me? for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father? 

###### 9 
¶ And Jonathan answered, God keep that from thee: for if I knew that wickedness were concluded of my father to come upon thee, would not I tell it thee? 

###### 10 
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? how _shall I know_, if thy father answer thee cruelly? 

###### 11 
And Jonathan said to David, Come and let us go out into the field: and they twain went out into the field. 

###### 12 
Then Jonathan said to David, O Lord God of Israel, when I have groped my father's mind tomorrow at this time, _or_ within this three days, and if it be well with David, and I then send not unto thee, and show it thee, 

###### 13 
The Lord do so and much more unto Jonathan: but if my father have mind to do thee evil, I will show thee also, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and the Lord be with thee as he hath been with my father. 

###### 14 
Likewise _I require_ not whiles I live: _for I doubt not_ but thou wilt show me the mercy of the Lord, _that I die not_. 

###### 15 
But _I require_ that thou cut not off thy mercy from mine house forever: no, not when the Lord hath destroyed the enemies of David, every one from the earth. 

###### 16 
So Jonathan made a bond with the house of David, _saying_, Let the Lord require it at the hands of David's enemies. 

###### 17 
And again Jonathan swore unto David, because he loved him (for he loved him as his own soul,) 

###### 18 
Then said Jonathan to him, Tomorrow is the first day of the month: and thou shalt be looked for, for thy place shall be empty. 

###### 19 
Therefore thou shalt hide thyself three days, _then_ thou shalt go down quickly and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself, when this matter was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel. 

###### 20 
And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark. 

###### 21 
And after I will send a boy, _saying_, Go, seek the arrows. If I say unto the boy, See, the arrows are on this side thee, bring them, and come thou: for it is well with thee, and no hurt, _as_ the Lord liveth. 

###### 22 
But if I say thus unto the boy, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee, go thy way: for the Lord hath sent thee away. 

###### 23 
As touching the thing which thou and I have spoken of, behold, the Lord _be_ between thee and me forever. 

###### 24 
¶ So David hid himself in the field: and when the first day of the month came, the king sat to eat meat. 

###### 25 
And the king sat, as at other times upon his seat, even upon his seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty. 

###### 26 
And Saul said nothing that day: for he thought, Something hath befallen him, though he were clean, _or else_ because he was not purified. 

###### 27 
But on the morrow which was the second day of the month, David's place was empty again: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither yesterday nor today? 

###### 28 
And Jonathan answered unto Saul, David required of me, _that he might go_ to Bethlehem. 

###### 29 
For he said, Let me go, I pray thee: for our family _offereth_ a sacrifice in the city, and my brother hath sent for me: therefore now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go, I pray thee, and see my brethren: this is the cause that he cometh not unto the king's table. 

###### 30 
Then was Saul angry with Jonathan, and said unto him, Thou son of the wicked rebellious woman, do not I know, that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy confusion, and to the confusion _and_ shame of thy mother? 

###### 31 
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: wherefore now send and fet him unto me, for he shall surely die. 

###### 32 
And Jonathan answered unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he die? what hath he done? 

###### 33 
And Saul cast a spear at him to hit him, whereby Jonathan knew, that it was determined of his father to slay David. 

###### 34 
¶ So Jonathan arose from the table in a great anger, and did eat no meat the second day of the month: for he was sorry for David, _and_ because his father had reviled him. 

###### 35 
On the next morning therefore Jonathan went out into the field, at the time appointed with David, and a little boy with him. 

###### 36 
And he said unto his boy, Run now, seek the arrows which I shoot, and as the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him. 

###### 37 
And when the boy was come to the place where the arrow was that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the boy, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee? 

###### 38 
And Jonathan cried after the boy, Make speed, haste _and_ stand not still: and Jonathan's boy gathered up the arrows, and came to his master, 

###### 39 
But the boy knew nothing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter. 

###### 40 
Then Jonathan gave his bow and arrows unto the boy that was with him, and said unto him, Go, carry them into the city. 

###### 41 
¶ As soon as the boy was gone, David arose out of a place that was toward the South, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept both twain, till David exceeded. 

###### 42 
Therefore Jonathan said to David, Go in peace: that which we have sworn both of us in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord be between me and thee, and between my seed and between thy seed, _let it stand_ forever. 

###### 43 
And he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city.

***

(previous:: [[1 Sam 19|← 09 - 1 Samuel 19]]) | (up:: [[09 - 1 Samuel]]) | (next:: [[1 Sam 21|09 - 1 Samuel 21 →]])
