# 46 - 1 Corinthians 11

(previous:: [[1 Cor 10|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 10]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 12|46 - 1 Corinthians 12 →]])

***


###### 1 
Be ye followers of me, even as I am of Christ: 

###### 2 
Now brethren, I commend you, that ye remember all my things, and keep the ordinances, as I delivered them to you. 

###### 3 
But I will that ye know, that Christ is the head of every man: and the man is the woman's head: and God is Christ's head. 

###### 4 
Every man praying or prophesying having _anything _on_ his_ head, dishonoreth his head. 

###### 5 
But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth bareheaded, dishonoreth her head: for it is even one very thing, as though she were shaven. 

###### 6 
Therefore if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn: and if it be shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered. 

###### 7 
For a man ought not to cover _his_ head: forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man. 

###### 8 
For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man. 

###### 9 
For the man was not created for the woman's sake: but the woman for the man's sake. 

###### 10 
Therefore ought the woman to have power on _her_ head, because of the Angels. 

###### 11 
Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord. 

###### 12 
For as the woman is of the man, so is the man also by the woman: but all things are of God. 

###### 13 
Judge in yourselves, Is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered? 

###### 14 
Doth not nature itself teach you, that if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him? 

###### 15 
But if a woman have long hair, it is a praise unto her: for her hair is given her for a covering. 

###### 16 
But if any man list to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the Churches of God. 

###### 17 
¶ Now in this that I declare, I praise _you _not, that ye come together, not with profit, but with hurt. 

###### 18 
For first of all, when ye come together in the Church, I hear that there are dissensions among you: and I believe it _to be true_ in some part. 

###### 19 
For there must be heresies even among you, that they which are approved among you, might be known. 

###### 20 
When ye come together therefore into one place, _this_ is not to eat the Lord's Supper. 

###### 21 
For every man when they should eat, taketh his own supper afore, and one is hungry, and another is drunken. 

###### 22 
Have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? despise ye the Church of God, and shame them that have not? what shall I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not. 

###### 23 
For I have received of the Lord that which I also have delivered unto you, _to wit_, That the Lord Jesus in the night when he was betrayed, took bread. 

###### 24 
And when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, **Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do ye in remembrance of me. The Bible (GNV) The Bible.md VBoxAudioTest VBoxAutostart VBoxBalloonCtrl VBoxBugReport VBoxHeadless VBoxManage VBoxVRDP VirtualBox VirtualBoxVM aws aws_completer bg2md.rb bg2obs.sh com.docker.cli contentful corepack docker docker-compose docker-compose-v1 docker-credential-desktop docker-credential-ecr-login docker-credential-osxkeychain firebase fuzzy_match httpclient hub-tool iloktool kubectl kubectl.docker locales n node npm npx pod sandbox-pod serverless sls tsc tsserver vbox-img vboximg-mount vpnkit xcodeproj 

###### 25 
After the same manner also _he took_ the cup, when he had supped, saying, **This cup is the New Testament in my blood: this do as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me. The Bible (GNV) The Bible.md VBoxAudioTest VBoxAutostart VBoxBalloonCtrl VBoxBugReport VBoxHeadless VBoxManage VBoxVRDP VirtualBox VirtualBoxVM aws aws_completer bg2md.rb bg2obs.sh com.docker.cli contentful corepack docker docker-compose docker-compose-v1 docker-credential-desktop docker-credential-ecr-login docker-credential-osxkeychain firebase fuzzy_match httpclient hub-tool iloktool kubectl kubectl.docker locales n node npm npx pod sandbox-pod serverless sls tsc tsserver vbox-img vboximg-mount vpnkit xcodeproj 

###### 26 
For as often as ye shall eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye show the Lord's death till he come. 

###### 27 
Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink the cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 

###### 28 
Let every man therefore examine himself, and so let them eat of this bread, and drink of this cup. 

###### 29 
For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh his own damnation, _because_ he discerneth not the Lord's body. 

###### 30 
For this cause many _are_ weak, and sick among you, and many sleep. 

###### 31 
For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. 

###### 32 
But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, because we should not be condemned with the world. 

###### 33 
Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another. 

###### 34 
And if any man be hungry, let him eat at home, that ye come not together unto condemnation. Other things will I set in order when I come.

***

(previous:: [[1 Cor 10|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 10]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 12|46 - 1 Corinthians 12 →]])
