# 46 - 1 Corinthians 13

(previous:: [[1 Cor 12|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 12]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 14|46 - 1 Corinthians 14 →]])

***


###### 1 
Though I speak with the tongues of men and Angels, and have not love, I am _as_ sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. 

###### 2 
And though I had the _gift _of prophecy, and knew all secrets and all knowledge, yea, if I had all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and had not love, I were nothing. 

###### 3 
And though I feed the poor with all my goods, and though I give my body, that I be burned, and have not love, it profiteth me nothing. 

###### 4 
Love suffereth long: it is bountiful: love envieth not: love doth not boast itself: it is not puffed up: 

###### 5 
It doth no uncomely thing: it seeketh not her own thing: it is not provoked to anger: it thinketh no evil: 

###### 6 
It rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth: 

###### 7 
It suffereth all things: it believeth all things: it hopeth all things: it endureth all things. 

###### 8 
Love doth never fall away, though that prophesyings be abolished, or the tongues cease, or knowledge vanish away. 

###### 9 
For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. 

###### 10 
But when that which is perfect, is come, then that which is in part shall be abolished. 

###### 11 
When I was a child, I spake as a child: I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things. 

###### 12 
For now we see through a glass darkly: but then _shall we see_ face to face. Now I know in part: but then shall I know even as I am known. 

###### 13 
And now abideth faith, hope _and_ love, _even_ these three: but the chiefest of these _is_ love.

***

(previous:: [[1 Cor 12|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 12]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 14|46 - 1 Corinthians 14 →]])
