# 46 - 1 Corinthians 16

(previous:: [[1 Cor 15|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 15]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]])

***


###### 1 
Concerning the gathering for the Saints, as I have ordained in the Churches of Galatia, so do ye also. 

###### 2 
Every first _day_ of the week, let every one of you put aside by himself, and lay up as _God_ hath prospered him, that then there be no gatherings when I come. 

###### 3 
And when I am come, whomsoever ye shall allow by letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem. 

###### 4 
And if it be meet that I go also, they shall go with me. 

###### 5 
Now I will come unto you, after I have gone through Macedonia (for I will pass through Macedonia.) 

###### 6 
And it may be that I will abide, yea, or winter with you, that ye may bring me on my way, whithersoever I go. 

###### 7 
For I will not see you now in my passage, but I trust to abide a while with you, if the Lord permit. 

###### 8 
And I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost. 

###### 9 
For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries. 

###### 10 
¶ Now if Timothy come, see that he be without fear with you: for he worketh the work of the Lord, even as I _do_. 

###### 11 
Let no man therefore despise him: but convey him forth in peace, that he may come unto me: for I looked for him with the brethren. 

###### 12 
As touching _our_ brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come unto you with the brethren: but his mind was not at all to come at this time: howbeit he will come when he shall have convenient time. 

###### 13 
¶ Watch ye: stand fast in the faith: quit you like men, _and_ be strong. 

###### 14 
Let all your things be done in love. 

###### 15 
Now brethren, I beseech you (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have given themselves to minister unto the Saints.) 

###### 16 
That ye be obedient even unto such, and to all that help with us and labor. 

###### 17 
I am glad of the coming of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus: for they have supplied the want of you. 

###### 18 
For they have comforted my spirit and yours: acknowledge therefore such men. 

###### 19 
The Churches of Asia salute you: Aquila and Priscilla with the Church that is in their house, salute you greatly in the Lord. 

###### 20 
All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with an holy kiss. 

###### 21 
The salutation of _me_ Paul with mine own hand. 

###### 22 
If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be had in execration maran-atha. 

###### 23 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ _be_ with you. 

###### 24 
My love _be_ with you all in Christ Jesus, Amen. The first _Epistle_ to the Corinthians, written from Philippi, _and sent_ by Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, and Timothy.

***

(previous:: [[1 Cor 15|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 15]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]])
