# 46 - 1 Corinthians 12

(previous:: [[1 Cor 11|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 11]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 13|46 - 1 Corinthians 13 →]])

***


###### 1 
Now concerning spiritual _gifts_, brethren, I would not have you ignorant. 

###### 2 
Ye know that ye were Gentiles, and were carried away unto the dumb idols, as ye were led. 

###### 3 
Wherefore I declare unto you, that no man speaking by the spirit of God, calleth Jesus execrable: also no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the holy Ghost. 

###### 4 
Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. 

###### 5 
And there are diversities of administrations, but the same Lord. 

###### 6 
And there are diversities of operations, but God is the same which worketh all in all. 

###### 7 
But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man, to profit withal. 

###### 8 
For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom: and to another the word of knowledge, by the same Spirit: 

###### 9 
And to another _is given_ faith by the same Spirit: and to another the gifts of healing, by the same Spirit: 

###### 10 
And to another the operations of great works: and to another, prophecy: and to another, the discerning of spirits: and to another, diversities of tongues: and to another, the interpretation of tongues. 

###### 11 
And all these things worketh one and the selfsame Spirit, distributing to every man severally as he will. 

###### 12 
For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the body, which is one, though they be many, _yet_ are _but_ one body: even so is Christ. 

###### 13 
For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether _we be_ Jews, or Grecians, whether _we be_ bond, or free, and have been all made to drink into one Spirit. 

###### 14 
For the body also is not one member, but many. 

###### 15 
If the foot would say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? 

###### 16 
And if the ear would say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? 

###### 17 
If the whole body _were_ an eye, where _were_ the hearing? If the whole _were_ hearing, where _were_ the smelling? 

###### 18 
But now hath God disposed the members every one of them in the body at his own pleasure. 

###### 19 
For if they were all one member, where _were_ the body? 

###### 20 
But now _are_ there many members, yet but one body. 

###### 21 
And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee: nor the head again to the feet, I have no need of you. 

###### 22 
Yea, much rather those members of the body, which seem to be more feeble, are necessary. 

###### 23 
And upon those _members_ of the body, which we think most unhonest, put we more honesty on: and our uncomely _parts_ have more comeliness on. 

###### 24 
For our comely _parts _need it not: but God hath tempered the body together: and hath given the more honor to that _part_ which lacked, 

###### 25 
Lest there should be any division in the body: but that the members should have the same care one for another. 

###### 26 
Therefore if one member suffer, all suffer with it: if one member be had in honor, all the members rejoice with it. 

###### 27 
Now ye are the body of Christ, and members for _your_ part. 

###### 28 
And God hath ordained some in the Church: _as_ first Apostles, secondly Prophets, thirdly teachers, then them that do miracles: after that, the gifts of healing, helpers, governors, diversity of tongues. 

###### 29 
Are all Apostles? are all Prophets? are all teachers? 

###### 30 
Are all doers of miracles? have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? 

###### 31 
But desire you the best gifts, and I will yet show you a more excellent way.

***

(previous:: [[1 Cor 11|← 46 - 1 Corinthians 11]]) | (up:: [[46 - 1 Corinthians]]) | (next:: [[1 Cor 13|46 - 1 Corinthians 13 →]])
