# 13 - 1 Chronicles 20

(previous:: [[1 Chr 19|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 19]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 21|13 - 1 Chronicles 21 →]])

***


###### 1 
And when the year was expired, in the time that kings go out _a warfare_, Joab carried out the strength of the army, and destroyed the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah (but David tarried at Jerusalem) and Joab smote Rabbah, and destroyed it. 

###### 2 
Then David took the crown of their king from off his head, and found it the weight of a talent of gold with precious stones in it: and it was _set_ on David's head, and he brought away the spoil of the city exceeding much. 

###### 3 
And he carried away the people that were in it, and cut them with saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes: even thus did David with all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then David and all the people came again to Jerusalem. 

###### 4 
¶ And after this also there arose war at Gezer with the Philistines: then Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Sippai of the children of Haraphah, and they were subdued. 

###### 5 
And there was yet _another_ battle with the Philistines: and Elhanan the son of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear staff _was_ like a weaver's beam. 

###### 6 
And yet again there was a battle at Gath, where was a man of a _great_ stature, and his fingers _were_ by sixes, _even_ four and twenty, and was also the son of Haraphah. 

###### 7 
And when he reviled Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David's brother did slay him. 

###### 8 
These were born unto Haraphah at Gath, and fell by the hand of David, and by the hands of his servants.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 19|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 19]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 21|13 - 1 Chronicles 21 →]])
