# 13 - 1 Chronicles 29

(previous:: [[1 Chr 28|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 28]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]])

***


###### 1 
Moreover, David the King said unto all the Congregation, God hath chosen Solomon mine only son, young and tender, and the work _is_ great: for this house _is_ not for man, but for the Lord God. 

###### 2 
Now I have prepared with all my power for the house of my God, gold for _vessels_ of gold, and silver for _them_ of silver, and brass for _things_ of brass, iron for _things_ of iron, and wood for _things_ of wood, and onyx stones, and stones to be set, and carbuncle stones, and of divers colors, and all precious stones, and marble stones in abundance. 

###### 3 
Moreover, because I have delight in the house of my God, I have of mine own gold and silver, which I have given to the house of my God, beside all that I have prepared for the house of the Sanctuary, 

###### 4 
Even three thousand talents of gold of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of fined silver to overlay the walls of the houses. 

###### 5 
The gold for the _things_ of gold, and the silver for _things_ of silver, and for all the work by the hands of artificers: and who is willing to fill his hand today unto the Lord? 

###### 6 
So the princes of the families, and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly, 

###### 7 
And they gave for the service of the house of God, five thousand talents of gold, and ten thousand pieces, and ten thousand talents of silver, and eighteen thousand talents of brass, and one hundred thousand talents of iron. 

###### 8 
And they with whom _precious_ stones were found, gave them to the treasure of the house of the Lord, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite. 

###### 9 
And the people rejoiced when they offered willingly: for they offered willingly unto the Lord, with a perfect heart. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy. 

###### 10 
Therefore David blessed the Lord before all the Congregation, and David said, Blessed _be_ thou, O Lord God of Israel our father, forever and ever. 

###### 11 
Thine, O Lord, is greatness and power, and glory and victory, and praise: for all that is in heaven and in earth _is thine_: thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou excellest as head over all. 

###### 12 
Both riches and honor _come_ of thee, and thou reignest over all, and in thine hand is power and strength, and in thine hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all. 

###### 13 
Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious Name. 

###### 14 
But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee: and of thine own hand we have given thee. 

###### 15 
For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners like all our fathers: our days _are_ like the shadow upon the earth, and there is none abiding. 

###### 16 
O Lord our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build thee an house for thine holy Name, is of thine hand, and all _is_ thine. 

###### 17 
I know also my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast pleasure in righteousness: I have offered willingly in the uprightness of mine heart all these things: now also have I seen thy people which are found here, to offer unto thee willingly with joy. 

###### 18 
O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel our fathers, keep this forever in the purpose, _and_ the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their hearts unto thee. 

###### 19 
And give unto Solomon my son a perfect heart to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do all things, and to build the house which I have prepared. 

###### 20 
¶ And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the Lord your God. And all the Congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads, and worshipped the Lord and the king. 

###### 21 
And they offered sacrifices unto the Lord, and on the morrow after that day, they offered burnt offerings unto the Lord, _even_ a thousand young bullocks, a thousand rams, _and_ a thousand sheep, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel. 

###### 22 
And they did eat and drink before the Lord the same day with great joy, and they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed him prince before the Lord, and Zadok for the high Priest. 

###### 23 
So Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord, as king instead of David his father, and prospered: and all Israel obeyed him. 

###### 24 
And all the princes and men of power, and all the sons of king David submitted themselves under king Solomon. 

###### 25 
And the Lord magnified Solomon in dignity, in the sight of all Israel, and gave him so glorious a kingdom, as no king had before him in Israel. 

###### 26 
¶ Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel. 

###### 27 
And the space that he reigned over Israel, _was_ forty years: seven years reigned he in Hebron, and three and thirty years reigned he in Jerusalem: 

###### 28 
And he died in a good age, full of days, riches and honor, and Solomon his son reigned in his stead. 

###### 29 
Concerning the acts of David the king, first and last, behold they are written in the book of Samuel the Seer, and in the book of Nathan the Prophet, and in the book of Gad the Seer, 

###### 30 
With all his reign and his power, and times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the earth.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 28|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 28]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]])
