# 13 - 1 Chronicles 23

(previous:: [[1 Chr 22|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 22]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 24|13 - 1 Chronicles 24 →]])

***


###### 1 
So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son King over Israel. 

###### 2 
And he gathered together all the princes of Israel with the Priests and the Levites. 

###### 3 
And the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and above, and their number according to their sum was eight and thirty thousand men. 

###### 4 
Of these four and twenty thousand _were set_ to advance the work of the house of the Lord, and six thousand were overseers and judges. 

###### 5 
And four thousand _were_ porters, and four thousand praised the Lord with instruments which he made to praise _the Lord_. 

###### 6 
So David divided offices unto them, _to wit_, to the sons of Levi, to Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 

###### 7 
Of the Gershonites _were_ Laadan and Shimei. 

###### 8 
The sons of Laadan, the chief _was_ Jehiel, and Zetham and Joel, three. 

###### 9 
The Sons of Shimei, Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three: these were the chief fathers of Laadan. 

###### 10 
Also the sons of Shimei _were_ Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah: these four were the sons of Shimei. 

###### 11 
And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second, but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons: therefore they were in the families of _their_ father, counted but as one. 

###### 12 
¶ The sons of Kohath _were_ Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel, four. 

###### 13 
The sons of Amram, Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated to sanctify the most holy place, he and his sons forever to burn incense before the Lord, to minister to him, and to bless in his Name forever. 

###### 14 
¶ Moses also the man of God _and_ his children were named with the tribe of Levi. 

###### 15 
The sons of Moses _were_ Gershon, and Eliezer. 

###### 16 
Of the sons of Gershon _was_ Shebuel the chief. 

###### 17 
And the son of Eliezer _was_ Rehabiah the chief: for Eliezer had none other sons: but the sons of Rehabiah were very many. 

###### 18 
The son of Izhar _was_ Shelomith the chief. 

###### 19 
The sons of Hebron _were_ Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth. 

###### 20 
The sons of Uzziel _were_ Michah the first, and Jesshiah the second. 

###### 21 
¶ The sons of Merari _were_ Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli, Eleazar and Kish. 

###### 22 
And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters, and their brethren the sons of Kish took them. 

###### 23 
The sons of Mushi _were_ Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three. 

###### 24 
These were the sons of Levi according to the house of their fathers, _even_ the chief fathers according to their offices, according to the number of names, _and_ their sum that did the work for the service of the house of the Lord from the age of twenty years and above. 

###### 25 
For David said, The Lord God of Israel hath given rest unto his people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem forever. 

###### 26 
And also the Levites shall no more bear the Tabernacle and all the vessels for the service thereof. 

###### 27 
Therefore according to the last words of David, the Levites were numbered from twenty years and above, 

###### 28 
And their office _was_ under the hand of the sons of Aaron, for the service of the house of the Lord in the courts, and chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, and in the work of the service of the house of God, 

###### 29 
Both for the showbread, and for the fine flour, for the meat offering, and for the unleavened cakes, and for the fried things, and for that which was roasted, and for all measures and size, 

###### 30 
And for to stand every morning, to give thanks and praise to the Lord, and likewise at even, 

###### 31 
And to offer all burnt offerings unto the Lord in the Sabbaths, in the months, _and_ at the appointed times, according to the number and according to their custom, continually before the Lord, 

###### 32 
And that they should keep the charge of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the sons of Aaron their brethren in the service of the house of the Lord.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 22|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 22]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 24|13 - 1 Chronicles 24 →]])
