# 13 - 1 Chronicles 26

(previous:: [[1 Chr 25|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 25]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 27|13 - 1 Chronicles 27 →]])

***


###### 1 
Concerning the divisions of the porters, of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore of the sons of Asaph. 

###### 2 
And the sons of Meshelemiah, Zechariah the eldest, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 

###### 3 
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, _and_ Eliehoenai the seventh. 

###### 4 
And the sons of Obed-Edom, Shemaiah the eldest, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth, 

###### 5 
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eight: for God had blessed him. 

###### 6 
And to Shemaiah his son were sons born that ruled in the house of their father, for they were men of might. 

###### 7 
The sons of Shemaiah _were_ Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, _and_ his brethren, strong men: Elihu also, and Semachiah. 

###### 8 
All these were of the sons of Obed-Edom, they and their sons and their brethren mighty and strong to serve, _even_ threescore and two of Obed-Edom. 

###### 9 
And of Meshelemiah sons and brethren, eighteen mighty men. 

###### 10 
And of Hosah of the sons of Merari, the sons _were_ Shimri the chief, and (though he was not the eldest, yet his father made him the chief) 

###### 11 
Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, _and_ Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and the brethren of Hosah _were_ thirteen. 

###### 12 
Of these _were_ the divisions of the porters, of the chief men, _having_ the charge against their brethren, to serve in the house of the Lord. 

###### 13 
And they cast lots both small and great, for the house of their fathers, for every gate. 

###### 14 
And the lot on the East side fell to Shelemiah: then they cast lots for Zechariah his son a wise counselor, and his lot came out Northward: 

###### 15 
To Obed-Edom Southward, and to his sons the house of Asuppim: 

###### 16 
To Shuppim and to Hosah Westward with the gate of Shallecheth by the paved street that goeth upward, ward over against ward. 

###### 17 
Eastward _were_ six Levites, _and_ Northward four a day, _and_ Southward four a day, and toward Asuppim two _and_ two. 

###### 18 
In Parbar toward the West _were_ four by the paved street, and two in Parbar. 

###### 19 
These are the divisions of the porters of the sons of Korah, and of the sons of Merari. 

###### 20 
¶ And of the Levites. Ahijah _was_ over the treasures of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicate things. 

###### 21 
Of the sons of Laadan the sons of the Gershonites _descending_ of Laadan, the chief fathers of Laadan _were_ Gershon _and_ Jehieli. 

###### 22 
The sons of Jehieli _were_ Zetham and Joel his brother, _appointed_ over the treasures of the house of the Lord. 

###### 23 
Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, _and_ of the Uzzielites. 

###### 24 
And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, a ruler over the treasures. 

###### 25 
And of his brethren _which came_ of Eliezer, was Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son. 

###### 26 
Which Shelomith and his brethren _were_ over all the treasures of the dedicate things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the captains over thousands, and hundreds, and the captains of the army had dedicated. 

###### 27 
(_For_ of the battles and of the spoils they did dedicate to maintain the house of the Lord.) 

###### 28 
And all that Samuel the Seer had dedicated, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, _and_ whosoever had dedicated _anything, it was_ under the hand of Shelomith, and his brethren. 

###### 29 
Of the Izharites _was_ Chenaniah and his sons, for the business without over Israel, for officers and for Judges. 

###### 30 
Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of activity, a thousand and seven hundred were officers for Israel beyond Jordan Westward in all the business of the Lord, and for the service of the King. 

###### 31 
Among the Hebronites _was_ Jerijah the chiefest, even the Hebronites by his generations according to the families. And in the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for: and there were found among them men of activity at Jazer in Gilead. 

###### 32 
And his brethren men of activity, two thousand and seven hundred chief fathers, whom King David made rulers over the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every matter _pertaining_ to God, and for the king's business.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 25|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 25]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 27|13 - 1 Chronicles 27 →]])
