# 13 - 1 Chronicles 27

(previous:: [[1 Chr 26|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 28|13 - 1 Chronicles 28 →]])

***


###### 1 
The children of Israel also after their number, _even_ the chief fathers and captains of thousands and of hundreds, and their officers that served the king by divers courses, which came in and went out, month by month throughout all the months of the year: in every course _were_ four and twenty thousand. 

###### 2 
Over the first course for the first month _was_ Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his course _were_ four and twenty thousand. 

###### 3 
Of the sons of Perez _was_ the chief over all the princes of the armies for the first month. 

###### 4 
And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and _this was_ his course, and Mikloth _was_ a captain, and in his course _were_ four and twenty thousand. 

###### 5 
The captain of the third host for the third month _was_ Benaiah the son of Jehoiada the chief Priest: and in his course _were_ four and twenty thousand. 

###### 6 
This Benaiah was mighty among thirty and above the thirty, and in his course _was_ Ammizabad his son. 

###### 7 
The fourth for the fourth month _was_ Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course _were_ four and twenty thousand. 

###### 8 
The fifth for the fifth month _was_ prince Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 9 
The sixth for the sixth month _was_ Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 10 
The seventh for the seventh month _was_ Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 11 
The eight for the eight month _was_ Sibbechai the Hushathite of the Zarhites: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 12 
The ninth for the ninth month _was_ Abiezer the Anathothite of the sons of Jemini: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 13 
The tenth for the tenth month _was_ Maharai the Netophathite of the Zarhites: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 14 
The eleventh for the eleventh month _was_ Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sons of Ephraim: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 15 
The twelfth for the twelfth month _was_ Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course four and twenty thousand. 

###### 16 
¶ Moreover _the rulers_ over the tribes of Israel _were these_: over the Reubenites _was_ ruler, Eliezer the son of Zichri: over the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maachah: 

###### 17 
Over the Levites, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: over _them_ of Aaron, _and_ Zadok: 

###### 18 
Over Judah, Elihu of the brethren of David: over Issachar, Omri the son of Michael: 

###### 19 
Over Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: over Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of Azriel: 

###### 20 
Over the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah: over the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah: 

###### 21 
Over the _other_ half of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: over Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner: 

###### 22 
Over Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These are the princes of the tribes of Israel. 

###### 23 
But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and under, because the Lord had said that he would increase Israel like unto the stars of the heavens. 

###### 24 
And Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number: but he finished it not, because there came wrath for it against Israel: neither was the number put into the Chronicles of king David. 

###### 25 
And over the king's treasures _was_ Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and over the treasures in the fields, in the cities and in the villages, and in the towers _was_ Jehonathan the son of Uzziah: 

###### 26 
And over the workmen in the field that tilleth the ground, _was_ Ezri the son of Chelub: 

###### 27 
And over them that dressed the vines, _was_ Shimei the Ramathite: and over that which appertained to the vines, and over the store of the wine _was_ Zabdi the Shiphmite: 

###### 28 
And over the olive trees and mulberry trees that were in the valleys, _was_ Baal-Hanan the Gederite: and over the store of the oil _was_ Joash: 

###### 29 
And over the oxen that fed in Sharon, _was_ Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the oxen in the valleys _was_ Shaphat the son of Adlai: 

###### 30 
And over the camels _was_ Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses _was_ Jehdeiah the Meronothite: 

###### 31 
And over the sheep _was_ Jaziz the Hagrite: all these were the rulers of the substance that was king David's. 

###### 32 
And Jehonathan David's uncle a man of counsel and understanding (for he was a scribe) and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni _were_ with the King's sons. 

###### 33 
And Ahithophel _was_ the king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite the king's friend. 

###### 34 
And after Ahithophel _was_ Jehoiada the son of Benaiah and Abiathar: and captain of the King's army _was_ Joab.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 26|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 28|13 - 1 Chronicles 28 →]])
