# 13 - 1 Chronicles 25

(previous:: [[1 Chr 24|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 24]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 26|13 - 1 Chronicles 26 →]])

***


###### 1 
So David and the captains of the army separated for the ministry the sons of Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun, who should _sing_ prophesies with harps, with viols, and with cymbals, and their number was _even_ of the men for the office of their ministry, _to wit_, 

###### 2 
Of the sons of Asaph, Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah the sons of Asaph _were_ under the hand of Asaph, _which sang_ prophecies by the commission of the King. 

###### 3 
Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun, Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father: Jeduthun _sang_ prophecies with an harp, for to give thanks and to praise the Lord. 

###### 4 
Of Heman, the sons of Heman, Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, _and_ Mahazioth. 

###### 5 
All these were the sons of Heman, the King's Seer in the words of God to lift up the horn: and God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 

###### 6 
All these were under the hand of their father singing in the house of the Lord with cymbals, viols and harps, for the service of the house of God, and Asaph, and Jeduthun, and Heman _were_ at the King's commandment. 

###### 7 
So was their number with their brethren that were instructed in the songs of the Lord, _even_ of all that were cunning, two hundred fourscore and eight. 

###### 8 
And they cast lots, charge against _charge_, as well small as great, the cunning man as the scholar. 

###### 9 
And the first lot fell to Joseph, _which was_ of Asaph, the second, to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and his sons were twelve. 

###### 10 
The third, to Zaccur, _he_, his sons and his brethren _were_ twelve. 

###### 11 
The fourth, to Jizri, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 12 
The fifth, to Nethaniah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 13 
The sixth, to Bukkiah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 14 
The seventh, to Jesharelah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 15 
The eighth to Jeshaiah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 16 
The ninth to Mattaniah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 17 
The tenth to Shimei, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 18 
The eleventh to Azarel, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 19 
The twelfth to Hashabiah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 20 
The thirteenth to Shubael, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 21 
The fourteenth to Mattithiah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 22 
The fifteenth to Jeremoth, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 23 
The sixteenth to Hananiah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 24 
The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 25 
The eighteenth to Hanani, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 26 
The nineteenth to Mallothi, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 27 
The twentieth to Eliathah, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 28 
The one and twentieth to Hothir, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 29 
The two and twentieth to Giddalti, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 30 
The three and twentieth to Mahazioth, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve. 

###### 31 
The four and twentieth to Romamti-Ezer, _he_, his sons and his brethren twelve.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 24|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 24]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 26|13 - 1 Chronicles 26 →]])
