# 13 - 1 Chronicles 15

(previous:: [[1 Chr 14|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 14]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 16|13 - 1 Chronicles 16 →]])

***


###### 1 
And _David_ made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a place for the Ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. 

###### 2 
Then David said, None ought to carry the Ark of God, but the Levites: for the Lord hath chosen them to bear the Ark of the Lord, and to minister unto him forever. 

###### 3 
¶ And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem to bring up the Ark of the Lord unto his place, which he had ordained for it. 

###### 4 
And David assembled the sons of Aaron, and the Levites. 

###### 5 
Of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his brethren six score. 

###### 6 
Of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty. 

###### 7 
Of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his brethren an hundred and thirty. 

###### 8 
Of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred. 

###### 9 
Of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore. 

###### 10 
Of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and his brethren an hundred and twelve. 

###### 11 
¶ And David called Zadok and Abiathar the Priests, and of the Levites, Uriel, Asaiah and Joel, Shemaiah and Eliel, and Amminadab. 

###### 12 
And he said unto them, Ye are the chief fathers of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, and your brethren, and bring up the Ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the _place_ that I have prepared for it. 

###### 13 
For because ye were not there at the first, the Lord our God made a breach among us: for we sought him not after _due_ order. 

###### 14 
So the Priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the Ark of the Lord God of Israel. 

###### 15 
¶ And the sons of the Levites bare the Ark of God upon their shoulders with the bars as Moses had commanded, according to the word of the Lord, 

###### 16 
And David spake to the chief of the Levites, that they should appoint _certain_ of their brethren to sing with instruments of music, with viols and harps, and cymbals, that they might make a sound, and lift up their voice with joy. 

###### 17 
So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel, and of his brethren Asaph the son of Berechiah, and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah, 

###### 18 
And with them their brethren in the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel the porters. 

###### 19 
So Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, _were_ singers to make a sound with cymbals of brass, 

###### 20 
And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah with viols on Alamoth, 

###### 21 
And Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps upon Sheminith Jenazzeah. 

###### 22 
But Chenaniah the chief of the Levites had the charge bearing the burden in the charge, for he was able to instruct. 

###### 23 
And Berechiah and Elkanah were porters for the Ark. 

###### 24 
And Shebaniah, and Joshaphat and Nethanel and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer the Priests did blow with trumpets before the Ark of God, and Obed-Edom and Jehiah _were_ porters for the Ark. 

###### 25 
So David and the Elders of Israel and the captains of thousands went to bring up the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord from the house of Obed-Edom with joy. 

###### 26 
And because that God helped the Levites that bare the Ark of the covenant of the Lord, they offered seven bullocks and seven rams. 

###### 27 
And David had on him a linen garment, as all the Levites that bare the Ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah that had the chief charge of the singers: and upon David _was_ a linen Ephod. 

###### 28 
Thus all Israel brought up the Ark of the Lord's covenant with shouting, and sound of cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, making a sound with viols and with harps. 

###### 29 
And when the Ark of the covenant of the Lord came into the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at a window, and saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart.

***

(previous:: [[1 Chr 14|← 13 - 1 Chronicles 14]]) | (up:: [[13 - 1 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[1 Chr 16|13 - 1 Chronicles 16 →]])
