# 14 - 2 Chronicles 27

(previous:: [[2 Chr 26|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 28|14 - 2 Chronicles 28 →]])

***


###### 1 
Jotham was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem sixteen years. His mother was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok. 

###### 2 
Jotham did what was pleasing in the LORD's sight. He did everything his father, Uzziah, had done, except that Jotham did not sin by entering the Temple of the LORD. But the people continued in their corrupt ways. 

###### 3 
Jotham rebuilt the upper gate of the Temple of the LORD. He also did extensive rebuilding on the wall at the hill of Ophel. 

###### 4 
He built towns in the hill country of Judah and constructed fortresses and towers in the wooded areas. 

###### 5 
Jotham went to war against the Ammonites and conquered them. Over the next three years he received from them an annual tribute of 7,500 pounds of silver, 50,000 bushels of wheat, and 50,000 bushels of barley. 

###### 6 
King Jotham became powerful because he was careful to live in obedience to the LORD his God. 

###### 7 
The rest of the events of Jotham's reign, including all his wars and other activities, are recorded in _The Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah._ 

###### 8 
He was twenty-five years old when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem sixteen years. 

###### 9 
When Jotham died, he was buried in the City of David. And his son Ahaz became the next king.

***

(previous:: [[2 Chr 26|← 14 - 2 Chronicles 26]]) | (up:: [[14 - 2 Chronicles]]) | (next:: [[2 Chr 28|14 - 2 Chronicles 28 →]])
