# 19 - Psalms 10

(previous:: [[Ps 9|← 19 - Psalms 9]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 11|19 - Psalms 11 →]])

***


###### 1 
Why do You stand afar off, O LORD? Why do You hide _Yourself_ in times of trouble? 

###### 2 
In pride the wicked hotly pursue the afflicted; Let them be caught in the plots which they have devised. 

###### 3 
For the wicked boasts of his heart's desire, And the greedy man curses _and_ spurns the LORD. 

###### 4 
The wicked, in the haughtiness of his countenance, does not seek _Him_. All his thoughts are, "There is no God." 

###### 5 
His ways prosper at all times; Your judgments are on high, out of his sight; As for all his adversaries, he snorts at them. 

###### 6 
He says to himself, "I will not be moved; Throughout all generations I will not be in adversity." 

###### 7 
His mouth is full of curses and deceit and oppression; Under his tongue is mischief and wickedness. 

###### 8 
He sits in the lurking places of the villages; In the hiding places he kills the innocent; His eyes stealthily watch for the unfortunate. 

###### 9 
He lurks in a hiding place as a lion in his lair; He lurks to catch the afflicted; He catches the afflicted when he draws him into his net. 

###### 10 
He crouches, he bows down, And the unfortunate fall by his mighty ones. 

###### 11 
He says to himself, "God has forgotten; He has hidden His face; He will never see it." 

###### 12 
Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up Your hand. Do not forget the afflicted. 

###### 13 
Why has the wicked spurned God? He has said to himself, "You will not require _it_." 

###### 14 
You have seen _it_, for You have beheld mischief and vexation to take it into Your hand. The unfortunate commits _himself_ to You; You have been the helper of the orphan. 

###### 15 
Break the arm of the wicked and the evildoer, Seek out his wickedness until You find none. 

###### 16 
The LORD is King forever and ever; Nations have perished from His land. 

###### 17 
O LORD, You have heard the desire of the humble; You will strengthen their heart, You will incline Your ear 

###### 18 
To vindicate the orphan and the oppressed, So that man who is of the earth will no longer cause terror.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 9|← 19 - Psalms 9]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 11|19 - Psalms 11 →]])
