# 19 - Psalms 103

(previous:: [[Ps 102|← 19 - Psalms 102]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 104|19 - Psalms 104 →]])

***


###### 1 
Bless the LORD, O my soul, And all that is within me, _bless_ His holy name. 

###### 2 
Bless the LORD, O my soul, And forget none of His benefits; 

###### 3 
Who pardons all your iniquities, Who heals all your diseases; 

###### 4 
Who redeems your life from the pit, Who crowns you with lovingkindness and compassion; 

###### 5 
Who satisfies your years with good things, _So that_ your youth is renewed like the eagle. 

###### 6 
The LORD performs righteous deeds And judgments for all who are oppressed. 

###### 7 
He made known His ways to Moses, His acts to the sons of Israel. 

###### 8 
The LORD is compassionate and gracious, Slow to anger and abounding in lovingkindness. 

###### 9 
He will not always strive _with us_, Nor will He keep _His anger_ forever. 

###### 10 
He has not dealt with us according to our sins, Nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. 

###### 11 
For as high as the heavens are above the earth, So great is His lovingkindness toward those who fear Him. 

###### 12 
As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our transgressions from us. 

###### 13 
Just as a father has compassion on _his_ children, So the LORD has compassion on those who fear Him. 

###### 14 
For He Himself knows our frame; He is mindful that we are _but_ dust. 

###### 15 
As for man, his days are like grass; As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 

###### 16 
When the wind has passed over it, it is no more, And its place acknowledges it no longer. 

###### 17 
But the lovingkindness of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear Him, And His righteousness to children's children, 

###### 18 
To those who keep His covenant And remember His precepts to do them. 

###### 19 
The LORD has established His throne in the heavens, And His sovereignty rules over all. 

###### 20 
Bless the LORD, you His angels, Mighty in strength, who perform His word, Obeying the voice of His word! 

###### 21 
Bless the LORD, all you His hosts, You who serve Him, doing His will. 

###### 22 
Bless the LORD, all you works of His, In all places of His dominion; Bless the LORD, O my soul!

***

(previous:: [[Ps 102|← 19 - Psalms 102]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 104|19 - Psalms 104 →]])
