# 19 - Psalms 144

(previous:: [[Ps 143|← 19 - Psalms 143]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 145|19 - Psalms 145 →]])

***


###### 1 
Blessed be the LORD, my rock, Who trains my hands for war, _And_ my fingers for battle; 

###### 2 
My lovingkindness and my fortress, My stronghold and my deliverer, My shield and He in whom I take refuge, Who subdues my people under me. 

###### 3 
O LORD, what is man, that You take knowledge of him? Or the son of man, that You think of him? 

###### 4 
Man is like a mere breath; His days are like a passing shadow. 

###### 5 
Bow Your heavens, O LORD, and come down; Touch the mountains, that they may smoke. 

###### 6 
Flash forth lightning and scatter them; Send out Your arrows and confuse them. 

###### 7 
Stretch forth Your hand from on high; Rescue me and deliver me out of great waters, Out of the hand of aliens 

###### 8 
Whose mouths speak deceit, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 

###### 9 
I will sing a new song to You, O God; Upon a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to You, 

###### 10 
Who gives salvation to kings, Who rescues David His servant from the evil sword. 

###### 11 
Rescue me and deliver me out of the hand of aliens, Whose mouth speaks deceit And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 

###### 12 
Let our sons in their youth be as grown-up plants, And our daughters as corner pillars fashioned as for a palace; 

###### 13 
Let our garners be full, furnishing every kind of produce, _And_ our flocks bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields; 

###### 14 
Let our cattle bear Without mishap and without loss, _Let there be_ no outcry in our streets! 

###### 15 
How blessed are the people who are so situated; How blessed are the people whose God is the LORD!

***

(previous:: [[Ps 143|← 19 - Psalms 143]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 145|19 - Psalms 145 →]])
