# 19 - Psalms 104

(previous:: [[Ps 103|← 19 - Psalms 103]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 105|19 - Psalms 105 →]])

***


###### 1 
Bless the LORD, O my soul! O LORD my God, You are very great; You are clothed with splendor and majesty, 

###### 2 
Covering Yourself with light as with a cloak, Stretching out heaven like a _tent_ curtain. 

###### 3 
He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters; He makes the clouds His chariot; He walks upon the wings of the wind; 

###### 4 
He makes the winds His messengers, Flaming fire His ministers. 

###### 5 
He established the earth upon its foundations, So that it will not totter forever and ever. 

###### 6 
You covered it with the deep as with a garment; The waters were standing above the mountains. 

###### 7 
At Your rebuke they fled, At the sound of Your thunder they hurried away. 

###### 8 
The mountains rose; the valleys sank down To the place which You established for them. 

###### 9 
You set a boundary that they may not pass over, So that they will not return to cover the earth. 

###### 10 
He sends forth springs in the valleys; They flow between the mountains; 

###### 11 
They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst. 

###### 12 
Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell; They lift up _their_ voices among the branches. 

###### 13 
He waters the mountains from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of His works. 

###### 14 
He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, And vegetation for the labor of man, So that he may bring forth food from the earth, 

###### 15 
And wine which makes man's heart glad, So that he may make _his_ face glisten with oil, And food which sustains man's heart. 

###### 16 
The trees of the LORD drink their fill, The cedars of Lebanon which He planted, 

###### 17 
Where the birds build their nests, _And_ the stork, whose home is the fir trees. 

###### 18 
The high mountains are for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge for the shephanim. 

###### 19 
He made the moon for the seasons; The sun knows the place of its setting. 

###### 20 
You appoint darkness and it becomes night, In which all the beasts of the forest prowl about. 

###### 21 
The young lions roar after their prey And seek their food from God. 

###### 22 
_When_ the sun rises they withdraw And lie down in their dens. 

###### 23 
Man goes forth to his work And to his labor until evening. 

###### 24 
O LORD, how many are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all; The earth is full of Your possessions. 

###### 25 
There is the sea, great and broad, In which are swarms without number, Animals both small and great. 

###### 26 
There the ships move along, _And_ Leviathan, which You have formed to sport in it. 

###### 27 
They all wait for You To give them their food in due season. 

###### 28 
You give to them, they gather _it_ up; You open Your hand, they are satisfied with good. 

###### 29 
You hide Your face, they are dismayed; You take away their spirit, they expire And return to their dust. 

###### 30 
You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; And You renew the face of the ground. 

###### 31 
Let the glory of the LORD endure forever; Let the LORD be glad in His works; 

###### 32 
He looks at the earth, and it trembles; He touches the mountains, and they smoke. 

###### 33 
I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. 

###### 34 
Let my meditation be pleasing to Him; As for me, I shall be glad in the LORD. 

###### 35 
Let sinners be consumed from the earth And let the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, O my soul. Praise the LORD!

***

(previous:: [[Ps 103|← 19 - Psalms 103]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 105|19 - Psalms 105 →]])
