# 19 - Psalms 45

(previous:: [[Ps 44|← 19 - Psalms 44]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 46|19 - Psalms 46 →]])

***


###### 1 
My heart overflows with a good theme; I address my verses to the King; My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. 

###### 2 
You are fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. 

###### 3 
Gird Your sword on _Your_ thigh, O Mighty One, _In_ Your splendor and Your majesty! 

###### 4 
And in Your majesty ride on victoriously, For the cause of truth and meekness _and_ righteousness; Let Your right hand teach You awesome things. 

###### 5 
Your arrows are sharp; The peoples fall under You; _Your arrows are_ in the heart of the King's enemies. 

###### 6 
Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; A scepter of uprightness is the scepter of Your kingdom. 

###### 7 
You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of joy above Your fellows. 

###### 8 
All Your garments are _fragrant with_ myrrh and aloes _and_ cassia; Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made You glad. 

###### 9 
Kings' daughters are among Your noble ladies; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. 

###### 10 
Listen, O daughter, give attention and incline your ear: Forget your people and your father's house; 

###### 11 
Then the King will desire your beauty. Because He is your Lord, bow down to Him. 

###### 12 
The daughter of Tyre _will come_ with a gift; The rich among the people will seek your favor. 

###### 13 
The King's daughter is all glorious within; Her clothing is interwoven with gold. 

###### 14 
She will be led to the King in embroidered work; The virgins, her companions who follow her, Will be brought to You. 

###### 15 
They will be led forth with gladness and rejoicing; They will enter into the King's palace. 

###### 16 
In place of your fathers will be your sons; You shall make them princes in all the earth. 

###### 17 
I will cause Your name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore the peoples will give You thanks forever and ever.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 44|← 19 - Psalms 44]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 46|19 - Psalms 46 →]])
