# 19 - Psalms 59

(previous:: [[Ps 58|← 19 - Psalms 58]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 60|19 - Psalms 60 →]])

***


###### 1 
Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; Set me _securely_ on high away from those who rise up against me. 

###### 2 
Deliver me from those who do iniquity And save me from men of bloodshed. 

###### 3 
For behold, they have set an ambush for my life; Fierce men launch an attack against me, Not for my transgression nor for my sin, O LORD, 

###### 4 
For no guilt of _mine_, they run and set themselves against me. Arouse Yourself to help me, and see! 

###### 5 
You, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, Awake to punish all the nations; Do not be gracious to any _who are_ treacherous in iniquity. Selah. 

###### 6 
They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go around the city. 

###### 7 
Behold, they belch forth with their mouth; Swords are in their lips, For, _they say_, "Who hears?" 

###### 8 
But You, O LORD, laugh at them; You scoff at all the nations. 

###### 9 
_Because of_ his strength I will watch for You, For God is my stronghold. 

###### 10 
My God in His lovingkindness will meet me; God will let me look _triumphantly_ upon my foes. 

###### 11 
Do not slay them, or my people will forget; Scatter them by Your power, and bring them down, O Lord, our shield. 

###### 12 
_On account of_ the sin of their mouth _and_ the words of their lips, Let them even be caught in their pride, And on account of curses and lies which they utter. 

###### 13 
Destroy _them_ in wrath, destroy _them_ that they may be no more; That _men_ may know that God rules in Jacob To the ends of the earth. Selah. 

###### 14 
They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go around the city. 

###### 15 
They wander about for food And growl if they are not satisfied. 

###### 16 
But as for me, I shall sing of Your strength; Yes, I shall joyfully sing of Your lovingkindness in the morning, For You have been my stronghold And a refuge in the day of my distress. 

###### 17 
O my strength, I will sing praises to You; For God is my stronghold, the God who shows me lovingkindness.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 58|← 19 - Psalms 58]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 60|19 - Psalms 60 →]])
