# 19 - Psalms 68

(previous:: [[Ps 67|← 19 - Psalms 67]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 69|19 - Psalms 69 →]])

***


###### 1 
Let God arise, let His enemies be scattered, And let those who hate Him flee before Him. 

###### 2 
As smoke is driven away, _so_ drive _them_ away; As wax melts before the fire, _So_ let the wicked perish before God. 

###### 3 
But let the righteous be glad; let them exult before God; Yes, let them rejoice with gladness. 

###### 4 
Sing to God, sing praises to His name; Lift up _a song_ for Him who rides through the deserts, Whose name is the LORD, and exult before Him. 

###### 5 
A father of the fatherless and a judge for the widows, Is God in His holy habitation. 

###### 6 
God makes a home for the lonely; He leads out the prisoners into prosperity, Only the rebellious dwell in a parched land. 

###### 7 
O God, when You went forth before Your people, When You marched through the wilderness, Selah. 

###### 8 
The earth quaked; The heavens also dropped _rain_ at the presence of God; Sinai itself _quaked_ at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 

###### 9 
You shed abroad a plentiful rain, O God; You confirmed Your inheritance when it was parched. 

###### 10 
Your creatures settled in it; You provided in Your goodness for the poor, O God. 

###### 11 
The Lord gives the command; The women who proclaim the _good_ tidings are a great host: 

###### 12 
"Kings of armies flee, they flee, And she who remains at home will divide the spoil!" 

###### 13 
When you lie down among the sheepfolds, _You are like_ the wings of a dove covered with silver, And its pinions with glistening gold. 

###### 14 
When the Almighty scattered the kings there, It was snowing in Zalmon. 

###### 15 
A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A mountain _of many_ peaks is the mountain of Bashan. 

###### 16 
Why do you look with envy, O mountains with _many_ peaks, At the mountain which God has desired for His abode? Surely the LORD will dwell _there_ forever. 

###### 17 
The chariots of God are myriads, thousands upon thousands; The Lord is among them _as at_ Sinai, in holiness. 

###### 18 
You have ascended on high, You have led captive _Your_ captives; You have received gifts among men, Even _among_ the rebellious also, that the LORD God may dwell _there_. 

###### 19 
Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burden, The God _who_ is our salvation. Selah. 

###### 20 
God is to us a God of deliverances; And to God the Lord belong escapes from death. 

###### 21 
Surely God will shatter the head of His enemies, The hairy crown of him who goes on in his guilty deeds. 

###### 22 
The Lord said, "I will bring _them_ back from Bashan. I will bring _them_ back from the depths of the sea; 

###### 23 
That your foot may shatter _them_ in blood, The tongue of your dogs _may have_ its portion from _your_ enemies." 

###### 24 
They have seen Your procession, O God, The procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. 

###### 25 
The singers went on, the musicians after _them_, In the midst of the maidens beating tambourines. 

###### 26 
Bless God in the congregations, _Even_ the LORD, _you who are_ of the fountain of Israel. 

###### 27 
There is Benjamin, the youngest, ruling them, The princes of Judah _in_ their throng, The princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali. 

###### 28 
Your God has commanded your strength; Show Yourself strong, O God, who have acted on our behalf. 

###### 29 
Because of Your temple at Jerusalem Kings will bring gifts to You. 

###### 30 
Rebuke the beasts in the reeds, The herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, Trampling under foot the pieces of silver; He has scattered the peoples who delight in war. 

###### 31 
Envoys will come out of Egypt; Ethiopia will quickly stretch out her hands to God. 

###### 32 
Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth, Sing praises to the Lord, Selah. 

###### 33 
To Him who rides upon the highest heavens, which are from ancient times; Behold, He speaks forth with His voice, a mighty voice. 

###### 34 
Ascribe strength to God; His majesty is over Israel And His strength is in the skies. 

###### 35 
O God, _You are_ awesome from Your sanctuary. The God of Israel Himself gives strength and power to the people. Blessed be God!

***

(previous:: [[Ps 67|← 19 - Psalms 67]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 69|19 - Psalms 69 →]])
