# 19 - Psalms 71

(previous:: [[Ps 70|← 19 - Psalms 70]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 72|19 - Psalms 72 →]])

***


###### 1 
In You, O LORD, I have taken refuge; Let me never be ashamed. 

###### 2 
In Your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; Incline Your ear to me and save me. 

###### 3 
Be to me a rock of habitation to which I may continually come; You have given commandment to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress. 

###### 4 
Rescue me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the grasp of the wrongdoer and ruthless man, 

###### 5 
For You are my hope; O Lord God, _You are_ my confidence from my youth. 

###### 6 
By You I have been sustained from _my_ birth; You are He who took me from my mother's womb; My praise is continually of You. 

###### 7 
I have become a marvel to many, For You are my strong refuge. 

###### 8 
My mouth is filled with Your praise And with Your glory all day long. 

###### 9 
Do not cast me off in the time of old age; Do not forsake me when my strength fails. 

###### 10 
For my enemies have spoken against me; And those who watch for my life have consulted together, 

###### 11 
Saying, "God has forsaken him; Pursue and seize him, for there is no one to deliver." 

###### 12 
O God, do not be far from me; O my God, hasten to my help! 

###### 13 
Let those who are adversaries of my soul be ashamed _and_ consumed; Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor, who seek to injure me. 

###### 14 
But as for me, I will hope continually, And will praise You yet more and more. 

###### 15 
My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness _And_ of Your salvation all day long; For I do not know the sum _of them_. 

###### 16 
I will come with the mighty deeds of the Lord God; I will make mention of Your righteousness, Yours alone. 

###### 17 
O God, You have taught me from my youth, And I still declare Your wondrous deeds. 

###### 18 
And even when _I am_ old and gray, O God, do not forsake me, Until I declare Your strength to _this_ generation, Your power to all who are to come. 

###### 19 
For Your righteousness, O God, _reaches_ to the heavens, You who have done great things; O God, who is like You? 

###### 20 
You who have shown me many troubles and distresses Will revive me again, And will bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 

###### 21 
May You increase my greatness And turn _to_ comfort me. 

###### 22 
I will also praise You with a harp, _Even_ Your truth, O my God; To You I will sing praises with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel. 

###### 23 
My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to You; And my soul, which You have redeemed. 

###### 24 
My tongue also will utter Your righteousness all day long; For they are ashamed, for they are humiliated who seek my hurt.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 70|← 19 - Psalms 70]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 72|19 - Psalms 72 →]])
