# 19 - Psalms 74

(previous:: [[Ps 73|← 19 - Psalms 73]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 75|19 - Psalms 75 →]])

***


###### 1 
O God, why have You rejected _us_ forever? Why does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture? 

###### 2 
Remember Your congregation, which You have purchased of old, Which You have redeemed to be the tribe of Your inheritance; _And_ this Mount Zion, where You have dwelt. 

###### 3 
Turn Your footsteps toward the perpetual ruins; The enemy has damaged everything within the sanctuary. 

###### 4 
Your adversaries have roared in the midst of Your meeting place; They have set up their own standards for signs. 

###### 5 
It seems as if one had lifted up _His_ axe in a forest of trees. 

###### 6 
And now all its carved work They smash with hatchet and hammers. 

###### 7 
They have burned Your sanctuary to the ground; They have defiled the dwelling place of Your name. 

###### 8 
They said in their heart, "Let us completely subdue them." They have burned all the meeting places of God in the land. 

###### 9 
We do not see our signs; There is no longer any prophet, Nor is there any among us who knows how long. 

###### 10 
How long, O God, will the adversary revile, _And_ the enemy spurn Your name forever? 

###### 11 
Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? From within Your bosom, destroy _them_! 

###### 12 
Yet God is my king from of old, Who works deeds of deliverance in the midst of the earth. 

###### 13 
You divided the sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters. 

###### 14 
You crushed the heads of Leviathan; You gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness. 

###### 15 
You broke open springs and torrents; You dried up ever-flowing streams. 

###### 16 
Yours is the day, Yours also is the night; You have prepared the light and the sun. 

###### 17 
You have established all the boundaries of the earth; You have made summer and winter. 

###### 18 
Remember this, O LORD, that the enemy has reviled, And a foolish people has spurned Your name. 

###### 19 
Do not deliver the soul of Your turtledove to the wild beast; Do not forget the life of Your afflicted forever. 

###### 20 
Consider the covenant; For the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence. 

###### 21 
Let not the oppressed return dishonored; Let the afflicted and needy praise Your name. 

###### 22 
Arise, O God, _and_ plead Your own cause; Remember how the foolish man reproaches You all day long. 

###### 23 
Do not forget the voice of Your adversaries, The uproar of those who rise against You which ascends continually.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 73|← 19 - Psalms 73]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 75|19 - Psalms 75 →]])
