# 19 - Psalms 73

(previous:: [[Ps 72|← 19 - Psalms 72]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 74|19 - Psalms 74 →]])

***


###### 1 
Surely God is good to Israel, To those who are pure in heart! 

###### 2 
But as for me, my feet came close to stumbling, My steps had almost slipped. 

###### 3 
For I was envious of the arrogant _As_ I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 

###### 4 
For there are no pains in their death, And their body is fat. 

###### 5 
They are not in trouble _as other_ men, Nor are they plagued like mankind. 

###### 6 
Therefore pride is their necklace; The garment of violence covers them. 

###### 7 
Their eye bulges from fatness; The imaginations of _their_ heart run riot. 

###### 8 
They mock and wickedly speak of oppression; They speak from on high. 

###### 9 
They have set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue parades through the earth. 

###### 10 
Therefore his people return to this place, And waters of abundance are drunk by them. 

###### 11 
They say, "How does God know? And is there knowledge with the Most High?" 

###### 12 
Behold, these are the wicked; And always at ease, they have increased _in_ wealth. 

###### 13 
Surely in vain I have kept my heart pure And washed my hands in innocence; 

###### 14 
For I have been stricken all day long And chastened every morning. 

###### 15 
If I had said, "I will speak thus," Behold, I would have betrayed the generation of Your children. 

###### 16 
When I pondered to understand this, It was troublesome in my sight 

###### 17 
Until I came into the sanctuary of God; _Then_ I perceived their end. 

###### 18 
Surely You set them in slippery places; You cast them down to destruction. 

###### 19 
How they are destroyed in a moment! They are utterly swept away by sudden terrors! 

###### 20 
Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when aroused, You will despise their form. 

###### 21 
When my heart was embittered And I was pierced within, 

###### 22 
Then I was senseless and ignorant; I was _like_ a beast before You. 

###### 23 
Nevertheless I am continually with You; You have taken hold of my right hand. 

###### 24 
With Your counsel You will guide me, And afterward receive me to glory. 

###### 25 
Whom have I in heaven _but You_? And besides You, I desire nothing on earth. 

###### 26 
My flesh and my heart may fail, But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. 

###### 27 
For, behold, those who are far from You will perish; You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to You. 

###### 28 
But as for me, the nearness of God is my good; I have made the Lord God my refuge, That I may tell of all Your works.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 72|← 19 - Psalms 72]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 74|19 - Psalms 74 →]])
