# 19 - Psalms 77

(previous:: [[Ps 76|← 19 - Psalms 76]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 78|19 - Psalms 78 →]])

***


###### 1 
My voice _rises_ to God, and I will cry aloud; My voice _rises_ to God, and He will hear me. 

###### 2 
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; In the night my hand was stretched out without weariness; My soul refused to be comforted. 

###### 3 
_When_ I remember God, then I am disturbed; _When_ I sigh, then my spirit grows faint. Selah. 

###### 4 
You have held my eyelids _open_; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 

###### 5 
I have considered the days of old, The years of long ago. 

###### 6 
I will remember my song in the night; I will meditate with my heart, And my spirit ponders: 

###### 7 
Will the Lord reject forever? And will He never be favorable again? 

###### 8 
Has His lovingkindness ceased forever? Has _His_ promise come to an end forever? 

###### 9 
Has God forgotten to be gracious, Or has He in anger withdrawn His compassion? Selah. 

###### 10 
Then I said, "It is my grief, That the right hand of the Most High has changed." 

###### 11 
I shall remember the deeds of the LORD; Surely I will remember Your wonders of old. 

###### 12 
I will meditate on all Your work And muse on Your deeds. 

###### 13 
Your way, O God, is holy; What god is great like our God? 

###### 14 
You are the God who works wonders; You have made known Your strength among the peoples. 

###### 15 
You have by Your power redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. 

###### 16 
The waters saw You, O God; The waters saw You, they were in anguish; The deeps also trembled. 

###### 17 
The clouds poured out water; The skies gave forth a sound; Your arrows flashed here and there. 

###### 18 
The sound of Your thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightnings lit up the world; The earth trembled and shook. 

###### 19 
Your way was in the sea And Your paths in the mighty waters, And Your footprints may not be known. 

###### 20 
You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron.

***

(previous:: [[Ps 76|← 19 - Psalms 76]]) | (up:: [[19 - Psalms]]) | (next:: [[Ps 78|19 - Psalms 78 →]])
